# Page 205

4.17 © COREPOWER YOGA PropsTYPES OF PROPSBlock, Strap, Wall, Chair, Floor, Mat, Blanket, Pillow, Towel, Partner, RopesBENEFITS OF PROPSNew and experienced yogis can benefit from using props.•Add challenge to certain poses•Provide an extended connection to the earth•Conserve and replenish energy•Lead to an ‘a-ha’ moment in arm balances or inversions•Make difficult poses more accessible and safe•Help prevent injuries•Aid stretches and strengthen muscles•Make it easier to hold poses long enough to release tension•Create space in the spine and joints•Assist in weight bearing poses•Improve stability and balance•Enhance body alignment•Give students confidence•Allow discoveryBENEFITS OF BLOCKS1. Create neutral alignment in foundational postures with a leg focus.Place block in between inner thighs to encourage proper stability and engagement of bandhasMountain Pose, Downward Facing Dog Pose, Sun Salutation A, Bridge Pose2. Create neutral alignment in postures with a thoracic or shoulder focusPlace block in between hands to encourage upper back and shoulder engagement and broadening Mountain Pose, Crescent Lung, Warrior One3. Use a block as an assist or modificationTriangle Pose, Half Pigeon, Extended Side Angle, Prayer TwistBENEFITS OF STRAPS1. Use a strap to create a feeling of neutral alignment in foundational posesHigh to Low Plank, Forearm Plank, Downward Facing Dog Pose, Mountain Pose arms in various poses2. Use a strap to help students to find stability and alignment in complex or compound posesBridge Pose, Bow Pose3. Use a strap to create a deepening in posesDancer’s Pose and variations, Half Pigeon PoseINCORPORATING INTO YOUR TEACHINGBe Clear•Make sure everyone has the prop. If using astrap, instruct how to loop the strap and where the strap should touch the body.•Describe what you will be doing and WHY. There is no purpose to using a prop if your studentsdon’t learn something from it!•Demonstrate. Move around the room to see that your intention is captured by your students.•Read the room. Ask yourself what purpose the extra support from using a prop is serving. Let that answer guide the way you use it.Practice First•Be comfortable with using the prop•Be able to demonstrate with confidence•Use clear, succinct and direct cuesTry New Things•Keep your students from hitting plateaus•Stimulates your students’ growth•Encourage students to come back for moreBe Flexible•Let go if a student doesn’t seem interested•Don’t worry if some students choose not to use the path you provide


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-204.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-206.md)
