# Page 259

6 .13 © COREPOWER YOGA Yamas and NiyamasThe yamas and niyamas are the first two limbs of the eight-limbed path. They are the most concrete places to start, as they relate directly to howyou behave outwardly in the world and inwardly toward yourself. Incorporating these principalsinto your life can have a profound effect on your yoga practice and your peace of mind. Rather than trying to integrate them all at once, choose theone or two that resonate the most with you. Youmay find that by simply focusing on one, the others begin to fall into place.YAMASAhimsa Non-Violence, Freedom from HarmingMinimize the amount of harm you are causing to yourself and others in thought, word and deed, by becoming aware of the ways in which youmay bring suffering to others. This is the reason many yogis choose to practice a vegetarian diet. They believe that a plant-based diet creates the least amount of harm to the planet and to othersentient beings. Patanjali’s Yoga Sutra says “When you are established in ahimsa (non-harming),others will stop harming you.” You will be a space for gentle love and kindness.Satya TruthfulnessBefore you speak, ask yourself, “Is it true? Is it kind? Is it necessary?” Satya includes rightspeech and truthful communication, as well as skillful listening. When approached with a piece of gossip, be a discerning listener. When trulypracticing satya, one’s words and deeds are all in alignment with one another. Don’t think one thing and then say something else. Being truthful does not necessarily mean being as blunt as possible.Practice ahimsa as well, by telling the truth in the most skillful and constructive way possible. Gandhi often said he only practiced a balance of Ahimsaand Satya and that all other practices came out of those two.Asteya Non-Stealing, Freedom from Stealing Do not take what doesn’t belong to you. Do not take that which you haven’t earned. This applies to material things, as well as respecting others’ time, energy and hard work. If you’re alwaysshowing up for appointments 10 minutes late, you are stealing another’s valuable time. If you takecredit for someone else’s idea or hard work, that is not practicing asteya. Asteya also means balance between give and take. For some people, this may mean taking what is needed more often.Brahmacharya ModerationThe yogic path discourages overindulgence in many things, including food and sex. Obsession with these things may cause you to lose touchwith what is truly important in life. Brahmacharya is often described as moderation, specificallysensual. In classical yoga, brahmacharya refers specifically to sexual moderation. Never usesexuality to dominate or manipulate another being. Being faithful to your partner would be a form of brahmacharya. Don’t be too hard on yourself, everything in moderation, including moderation.Aparigraha Non-Hoarding, Freedom from Grasping Develop sensitivity to what you really need. Don’t take so much that others don’t have enough.Don’t be possessed by your possessions. As long as you are lusting after the next great thing, you will always have a sense of lack, which leads tosuffering and a feeling of separation. If there is something you want, take the necessary steps tomake it happen. Let go of your attachment to the outcome.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-258.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-260.md)
