# Page 180

Hips"EXHalfPigeonSetup Cue: 1. Bring your (R or L) knee behind your (same-R or L) wrist and rest your shin on the mat2. Slide your back toes out to extend through your back legDeepening Cue: 1. Adjust the angle of your front shin to take pressure out of your knee joint and bring sensation to your front outer hip2. Drive your back hip forward to lengthen your hip flexorRepeat on other sideTransition: Shift to high plank, lower to your belly. Spine“INCobraPoseSetup Cue: 1. Keep your hands under your shoulders and zip your legs up together2. Lift your chest and lengthen your gaze forwardDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Push into the tops of your feet to activate through the backs of your legs2. Hug your belly in and spiral your inner thighs up and back to connect to your core and release your low backTransition: Release, gaze right. Bring your chin back to center.INBowPoseSetup Cue: 1. Bend your knees and kick your heels towards your glutes2. Reach your arms back towards your feet, and if you can make contact, take your feet into your hands Disengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Kick your feet into your hands to expand through your chest2. Bring your weight onto the soft part of your belly, to take any pressure out of your hip pointsRelease, gaze left. posesHIPSINThreeLegDogRightlegEXHalfPigeonINEXDownwardFacingDogINThreeLegDogLeftlegEXHalfPigeonINEXDownwardFacingDogSPINEINHighPlankEXLowertoyourbellyINCobraPoseEXLower,gazerightINBowPoseEXLower,gazeleftINCenter,pressuptoTableTopEXCamelPoseLowertoyourbackINBridgePoseEXReclinedBoundAnglePose


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-179.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-181.md)
