---
title: Contraindications
slug: contraindications
group: Assists and Options
order: 29
summary: >-
  forward fold. If the injury resides in the lumbar spine, limit backbends
  potentially only to Cobra or variations of Shalabasana. Fifty percent of
  Americans have lower back injuries…
tags: []
---
# Contraindications

forward fold. If the injury resides in the lumbar spine, limit backbends potentially only to Cobra or variations of Shalabasana. Fifty percent of Americans have lower back injuries
- be verycareful and attentive to people’s needs. PREGNANCY Pregnant women should avoid:- Compression of belly
- rounding in forward folds, core work, pulling belly up and in, etc.- Twisting postures closing off the pelvis
- Seated Twist, Reverse Half Moon- Revolved Crescent Lunge- Lying on back for too long- Lying on belly- Full Up Dog when belly is too large- Heat – use caution at least for the first trimester- Jumping forwardThese postures can help:- Vertical Frog – any opening of the pelvis and front hips will help with childbirth- Wide legged forward folds
- opening of the hips- Gentle Backbends – Standing Backbend, Camel, Dancers/Standing Bow- High and Side Plank – modified or full posture- Child’s Pose – wide-legged- Eagle – Helps facilitate movement of thelymphatic system to promote immunity and decrease swelling of jointsNotes on Prenatal FlowThe following list of postures is a guide based on the basic C1 Class. Please listen to your body and know that you are your own best teacher. Move slowly and with awareness in and out of postures as you would in any yoga class. You will hear themessages from your body in different ways than you may have in the past. Acknowledge those messages and honor your body. Fatigue may be a factor for you. If you feel as though you need a rest, take it. Remember, this is not only about you, this is alsoabout your baby. Balance may come and go depending on the day. Experiment with your postures, noticing whether you feel unstable. If so, back down for the day. It is much better to err on the side of caution than to put your baby at risk.
- --

PosturePregnancyOPTIONS PropandStrapOPTIONS Child’s PoseModify with wide legs and minimal pressure on the bellyBlock under hipsDownward Facing DogModify to wide-legged Downward Facing Dog in trimester 2 and 3Ragdoll PoseModify to wide-legged Rag Doll in trimester 2 and 3Stand at AttentionWiden stance in trimester 2 and 3Mountain PoseWiden stance in trimester 2 and 3Standing Forward FoldWiden stance in trimester 2 and 3Halfway LiftWiden stance in trimester 2 and 3Block under handsHigh to Low PlankHold plank, use knees in plank or do a high to low plank push-upUpward Facing DogSee above, Avoid in trimester 3Downward Facing DogModify to wide-legged Downward Facing Dog in trimester 2 and 3Chair PoseWiden stanceBlock between legsWarrior TwoExtended Side AngleForearm to thighReverse WarriorCorePlank holds, spinal balancing or leg lifts for hipsCrescent LungeDrop to back kneeRevolved Crescent LungeAvoid, stay in Crescent Lunge with hands at heartRunner’s LungeWiden stanceBlock under forearmsSide PlankDrop to bottom kneePrayer TwistAvoid, stay in Chair Pose w/hands at heart or vertical open arm twistGorilla PoseWiden stance, option for hands on shinsCrow PoseAvoid, Frog or Bound Angle PoseBlock under feet or foreheadEagle PoseKeep your back vertical, kickstand foot or take Figure 4 legs, option to use wall for supportDancer’s PoseEnjoy this one, keep knees to touch, option to use wall for supportStrap to footTree PoseKeep foot on ankle or shin, option to use wall for supportWarrior OneWiden stanceWarrior TwoTriangle PoseBlock under bottom handWide Leg Forward FoldBlock under handsHalf PigeonStay vertical, Full Pigeon, Bound Angle PoseBlock under hipsCobraAvoid, Cat/Cow option, spinal balance, Frog Pose, Bound Angle PoseFloor BowAvoid, Cat/Cow option, spinal balance, Frog Pose, Bound Angle PoseBlock between thighsCamel PoseAvoid, Cat/Cow option, spinal balance, Frog Pose, Bound Angle Pose, knees w/chest expansionBlock between thighsBridge PoseBlock under sacrumReclined Bound Angle PoseOkay until it becomes uncomfortableBlocks beneath hipsSeated Forward FoldWiden legsSit on block, strap to feetHappy Baby PoseOkay until it becomes uncomfortableSupine TwistWide Leg seated Forward FoldBlock beneath kneesCorpse PoseLeft side fetal position w/optional block between legs© Yoga Flow YOGA 4. 2 0
- --
- --
- --
- --
- --
- --
- --
- --
- --
1. Whatparticularposesopen thefrontlineofthebody? 2. Whatparticularposesopen thebacklineofthebody? 3. Whatparticularposeswork thespirallinesofthe body? 4. Whatshouldthespine alwaysbedoing? Howdowe accomplishthiseffectin ourstudents? 5. Whatismuscleconcentric contraction? Whatismuscleeccentriccontraction?
- --

# Anatomy5

Anatomy5
- --
5. 2 © Yoga Flow YOGA THE PHYSICAL BODY Dynamic activities like yoga increase bloodflow through the body, which heats and loosens connective tissue. Heat enhances the tissue’sability to soften and relax so it is beneficial to stretch after the muscles have been warmedup. Due to the nature and characteristics of the connective tissue, a yoga practice can target onearea of the body, while positively affecting another area. With the complementary muscular length andstrength benefits of yoga, a balanced yoga practice can improve posture and structural alignment bybalancing the muscular and soft-tissue tension pulling on opposite sides of a joint. Yoga helps tobuild multi-joint coordination, and with increasedpull at muscle-tendon-bone attachment sites, yoga can increase a person’s bone density. ALIGNMENTA basic knowledge of bone and muscle alignment, as well as how to stack the joints, is essential for injury prevention in yoga. A simple understanding of bone/muscle function and joint placementteaches efficiency in yoga and effortlessness of movement. By using proper alignment techniques to create efficiency of movement, yoga has many wonderful physiological effects on the body. Improper alignment causes undue stress on the body. Distortion of the joints can result in joint degeneration, and excessive load to supportingstructures (tendons, ligaments, cartilage, menisci). With repeated improper alignment and isolated or imbalanced excessive loading patterns, ligaments can overstretch, joint capsules can loosen andcartilage may wear out over time. Forward-head posture is currently one of the mostcommon abnormal postures in our society and occurs when a person’s head position is shifted forward relative toAnatomy is more than just the sum of all of the parts and systems of the body. While the body is perfect, the science of anatomy is imperfect. It lacks depth and dynamic relationship between the systems of the body and the individuality of each of us. The information provided here is abrief introduction to the physical make-up of the body. Understanding the functional anatomy, or relationship of how the body moves through yoga asana helps us understand the body moreintimately and opens our minds to the magnificent interplay of our physical beings. A basic knowledge and functional understanding of anatomical structures allows an instructor tosafely guide students in and out of yoga postures, while respecting natural skeletal joint structure, function, range of motion and muscle lengths; honoring structural integrity and facilitating injury prevention. Translated, vinyasa literally means “to place in a special way” or “to move with intention.”Together, a functional understanding of anatomy and appreciation for the physical intention of the yoga posture provides an instructor the abilityto skillfully personalize or modify a posture for a student with a physical limitation or injury, while staying aligned with the overall physical intention of the pose. This knowledgeable andmindful instructor facilitates a safe and successful yoga experience for the student. In addition, understanding the skeletal system’s structuralintegrity, the physical intention of the poses and exercises and the behavior of the anatomicalstructures involved in achieving a given pose or exercise, allows a teacher to choose verbal cuesthat strengthen a student’s awareness, alignment and connection to the asana. Understandinganatomy is paramount to educated body-reading and cueing as a teacher.
