---
title: 'Asana'
slug: 'asana'
group: 'Training'
order: 101
summary: '6 .12 The cultivation of a single point of focus requires patience, persistence and compassion towardoneself.DHYANAOnce the body and mind have been prepared, weenter the seventh li'
tags: []
---

6 .12 The cultivation of a single point of focus requires patience, persistence and compassion towardoneself.DHYANAOnce the body and mind have been prepared, weenter the seventh limb, dhyana, or meditation. In a true meditative state, the meditator is not aware of the actual act of meditating. They are onlyaware of the meditation object itself (examples:sound, mantra, image, intention, open awareness).In concentration practice, the practitioner isaware of the choice to focus, again and again, on the object. The ability to meditate first requiresthat one is able to concentrate. Meditation isusually described as a graceful practice, whereas concentration is described as an effortful practice. You can’t sit down and force yourself to meditate, but you can sit down and practice concentration, which will lead to longer and longer moments ofmeditation.SAMADHISamadhi is the experience of enlightenment and non-duality; the experience of yoga. The wordsamadhi is made up of two Sanskrit words:“sama” which means “even” or “same” and “dhi” which means intellect. Samadhi refers to astate of complete evenness or equilibrium of the mind. It is what Patanjali describes in the Yoga Sutra as the cessation of the fluctuations ofthe mind. In samadhi, you no longer experience yourself as separate from everything else. There is no separation between the individual and the universal, oneness is realized.DharanaDhyana
Asana
YamasNiyamasPranayamaPratyaharaSamadhiWHAT IS YOGA?Yoga comes from the root ‘yuj’ meaning yoke, to join or union. Yoga is skill in action. Yoga is the realization ofoneness of being; the experience that we are all one. Yoga is the experience of lacking nothing.“Yoga is the cessation of the fluctuations of the mind.”- Patanjali’s Yoga Sutra“Yoga is clear, discerning, dynamic participation in one’s life.” - Bhagavad Gita

---

# Page 259

6 .13 © Yoga Flow YOGA Yamas and NiyamasThe yamas and niyamas are the first two limbs of the eight-limbed path. They are the most concrete places to start, as they relate directly to howyou behave outwardly in the world and inwardly toward yourself. Incorporating these principalsinto your life can have a profound effect on your yoga practice and your peace of mind. Rather than trying to integrate them all at once, choose theone or two that resonate the most with you. Youmay find that by simply focusing on one, the others begin to fall into place.YAMASAhimsa Non-Violence, Freedom from HarmingMinimize the amount of harm you are causing to yourself and others in thought, word and deed, by becoming aware of the ways in which youmay bring suffering to others. This is the reason many yogis choose to practice a vegetarian diet. They believe that a plant-based diet creates the least amount of harm to the planet and to othersentient beings. Patanjali’s Yoga Sutra says “When you are established in ahimsa (non-harming),others will stop harming you.” You will be a space for gentle love and kindness.Satya TruthfulnessBefore you speak, ask yourself, “Is it true? Is it kind? Is it necessary?” Satya includes rightspeech and truthful communication, as well as skillful listening. When approached with a piece of gossip, be a discerning listener. When trulypracticing satya, one’s words and deeds are all in alignment with one another. Don’t think one thing and then say something else. Being truthful does not necessarily mean being as blunt as possible.Practice ahimsa as well, by telling the truth in the most skillful and constructive way possible. Gandhi often said he only practiced a balance of Ahimsaand Satya and that all other practices came out of those two.Asteya Non-Stealing, Freedom from Stealing Do not take what doesn’t belong to you. Do not take that which you haven’t earned. This applies to material things, as well as respecting others’ time, energy and hard work. If you’re alwaysshowing up for appointments 10 minutes late, you are stealing another’s valuable time. If you takecredit for someone else’s idea or hard work, that is not practicing asteya. Asteya also means balance between give and take. For some people, this may mean taking what is needed more often.Brahmacharya ModerationThe yogic path discourages overindulgence in many things, including food and sex. Obsession with these things may cause you to lose touchwith what is truly important in life. Brahmacharya is often described as moderation, specificallysensual. In classical yoga, brahmacharya refers specifically to sexual moderation. Never usesexuality to dominate or manipulate another being. Being faithful to your partner would be a form of brahmacharya. Don’t be too hard on yourself, everything in moderation, including moderation.Aparigraha Non-Hoarding, Freedom from Grasping Develop sensitivity to what you really need. Don’t take so much that others don’t have enough.Don’t be possessed by your possessions. As long as you are lusting after the next great thing, you will always have a sense of lack, which leads tosuffering and a feeling of separation. If there is something you want, take the necessary steps tomake it happen. Let go of your attachment to the outcome.

---

# Page 260

6 .14NIYAMASSaucha CleanlinessCleanliness and purity can be practiced on anumber of different levels. A clean environment and living space: clear clutter, keep belongings organized and practice good feng shui. Aclean body: clean diet, good hygiene, well- kept appearance. A clean mind: consider theamount and the quality of the information you are inputting on a daily basis and be selective about the books and magazines you read, howmuch time you spend online and what television shows and movies you choose to consume. Clean company: spend time with people who uplift yourspirit and inspire you to be your best and set clear boundaries if you have toxic people in your life.Santosha ContentmentLook to yourself and your own innate goodness for happiness; that is the only place you will trulyfind it. Santosha also means being present. Rather than wishing for things to be different in your life, accept and appreciate the reality of what is. Doyou really need things to be different to be happy?Choose to be happy now. Cultivate santosha by making gratitude a daily practice. Notice themoments you are happy, even if they seem to be few and far between. Keep a gratitude journal. Count your blessings. Remind yourself often, “I have enough. I am enough.”Tapas Self DisciplineTransform yourself in the fire of positive change! The term tapas means “heat” and it refers to the discomfort that comes with breaking habitualthought and behavioral patterns to effect positive transformation in your life. If you have ever tried to break a bad habit, you will know that processis often accompanied by physical discomfort. You also recognize that the discomfort is a necessarystep toward the change you are seeking. Having tapas is rolling out your yoga mat and doing your practice, even when you’d rather stay home and watch TV and eat chips. It’s pulling an all-nighter to finish an important assignment to the best of your ability. Or holding an uncomfortable yogapose for those last three difficult breaths because you know it will make you stronger.Svadhyaya Self StudyBe aware of your actions as they are happening. Reflect on them later. Use your reflections to make positive changes to your actions in the future.Taking time to reflect quietly on your day through journaling or contemplation is a wonderful way to practice svadhyaya. Studying of yoga texts andscriptures is also said to be a form of svadhyaya, as you are studying the highest self.“The person practicing svadhyaya reads his own book of life, at the same time that he writes and revises it.”- B.K.S. Iyengar, Light on YogaIsvara-pranidhana SurrenderGive your life force energy to something higher than yourself. This is devotion and surrenderfor the small self to the higher self. We practiceisvara-pranidhana every time we dedicate or offer up our yoga practice to someone else. This has apowerful effect on your practice. It creates new sense of purpose when your practice is infusedwith intention and energy. Isvara-pranidhana also means letting go of doubt and making room for faith.

---

# Page 261

SpendsometimereflectingontheYamas andNiyamas.Takeonthoseyamasand niyamasthatwillbenefityoumostnow. Journalaboutthemthroughouttherest ofTeacherTraining.Writethoseyamas andniyamasdowninplacesyouwillseeit periodicallythroughyourdayorduring youryoga practice.Observehowthe presenceandawarenessoftheseguiding principlesimpactsyourlife. 1.Howdoeseachyamaandniyamaassets toyogateachers.Howdotheymakeateacherandtheirlessonsmorepotent?Dotheyalignwithyourpersonalvaluesasateacher?2.Whichyamasandniyamaswouldbenefit youmostnowinTeacherTraining?If yougrewstrongerintheseareas,what wouldtherestofyourtraininglook like? THEYAMAS Ahimsa:Non-violence3.Whenyouareconfrontedwithviolenceor aggression,how canyouputanendto thatcycleratherthanperpetuateit? 4.Whatare somewaysyoucouldpractice non-violenceinthought,wordanddeed intheyogastudio? Satya:Truthfulness 5.Howdo youfeelaboutyourselfwhenyou sayonething,butdosomethingelse? 6.Whatisoneareaofyourlifewhereyou wouldliketobemore truthful? 7.HowwillyoupracticesatyawhengivingandreceivingfeedbackduringTeacher Training? Asteya:Non-stealing 8.Howcanyoucreateahealthybalance betweengiveandtakeinyourlife? 9.Inwhatareasofyourlife,andinwhatrelationships,mightyoubetakingmorethanyourshare?Brahmacharya: Moderation 10.Canyouidentifyanyareasofyourlife whereyourpursuitofpleasureand instantgratificationholdsyouback fromachievingyourlargergoals? 11.Inwhatareasofyourlifecouldyou practicemoremoderations? 12.Whatwoulditmeantopractice moderationonyouryogamat?

---

# Page 262

Aparigraha:Non-graspingandnon-hoarding 13.Doyouactuallyneedallofthethings thatyouown?Inwhatareasofyour lifecouldyoumakedowithless? 14.Whatisthedifferencebetweensetting agoalandsettinganintention? 15.Whatwoulditlookliketopracticenon-graspingontheyoga mat? THENIYAMAS Saucha:Cleanliness,purity 16.Isthereclutterinyourlifethatis affectingyourabilitytobepeaceful andproductive? 17.Whataresomewaysyoucancutdownon informationoverload? 18.Whoinyourlifewouldyouliketospend moretimewithbecausetheyupliftand inspireyou? 19.Whatrelationshipsare inneedofclearer boundaries? Santosa:Contentment,gratitude 20.Whatmakesyoutrulyhappy? 21.Whenyouare temptedtobeharshand judgmentaltowardyourself,howcanyou shiftthat? 22.Whatare someritualsorremindersyou cancreatetohelpyoustaygroundedin thepresentmoment? Tapas:Self-discipline 23.Identifysomepersonalpatternsor habitsthatyouwouldliketochange. Areyouwillingtoputforthhard workandputupwithsomenecessary discomforttomoveforwardonyour path? Svadhyaya:Self-study,self-reflection 24.Inwhatareasofyourlifecouldyou affordtobemoreawareofyouractions as they happen 25.Whattimeofthedaywouldbeagood timeforregularself-reflectionandjournaling? Isvara-pranidhana:Devotion, surrender, faith 26.Inwhatareas ofyouryoga practicedo youfeeldoubtful? 27.Howcanyouofferthisup?Whatscares youmostaboutteachingyoga? 28.Canyouletgoofsomeofyourpersonal fearsanddoubtsbydedicationyour effortstoservingothersthroughyoga?

---

# Page 263

6 .17 © Yoga Flow YOGA Sanskrit is the classical language of India. Itsmodern form is Hindi and is one of the 22 official languages of India. Sanskrit is one of the earliest members of the Indo-European language family:Vedic Sanskrit, the pre-Classical form of thelanguage is a foundational language of English, French, Latin and Germanic languages.The adjective is Samskrta, coming from Samskar, sam meaning “together” and (s)kar – “do,make..” This is translated as put together, well or completely formed, refined or highly elaborated. There are 54 vowels and consonants, each with a masculine and feminine part, totaling 108.Example: deva = masculine, devi = feminineSAMSKRTAThe cultured language, refined, consecrated andsanctified—has by definition always been a sacred and sophisticated language used for religious and learned discourse. It’s used for ceremonial rituals, hymns and mantras in India.PRAKRTAIn contrast to Samskrta, this was the language spoken by the peopleDEVA-BHASAThe “divine language” or the language of the demi gods.DEVANAGARIThe almost exclusive use of script to publishSanskrit texts. The Om symbol is written in Deva script making it sacred text.PRONUNCIATION TIPS1.Emphasis goes on the first “A” in asana, at the end of most posture names.2.Double consonants create a “stop,” or make the consonant, pause, then let it explode.3.Aspirate an “H” when it is written.Sanskrit4.“T” and “D” are placed at the gums behind the upper teeth, vs English, where our consonants are pronounced on the front of our teeth.5.Since there is a dot over the final vowel in Samasthiti, you add a “hi” to the end so it ispronounced Samasthitihi. This takes the word from being a name of a posture to being aprayer, rather than just being “equal on all sides pose” as it directly translates, it’s the yogi’sprayer to keep us equal no matter what lifebrings, ups or downs, highs or lows, Downdogs or Crows, we are steady and joyful in all postures.WHY SANSKRIT IS USED IN CLASSIt is a universal language for all yoga teachers that honors the teachers and the lineage thatcame before us. It honors the cultural legacies that produced the yoga practice, and something larger than the individual self. It is a consistent reference to the root of a technique. It is part of attempting to access higher levels of consciousness. Sanskritadds an energetic component to our students and ourselves. It can clear energy or balance the group, so everyone is on the same frequency.Each language has a vibratory structure intended for specific purposes. English has evolved into a conceptual language for communication whereas Sanskrit remains a language of vibrations andsound. Sanskrit creates entrainment, when twointeracting, oscillating bodies lock into phase, so that they vibrate in harmony due to the mutualinfluence they have on one another. In music, an in-tune instrument pulls another in tune. Yourfrequency will naturally ebb and flow and teachers and students will have a mutual influence on each other. Om brings balance to a class.Remember, sound is powerful. Take intoconsideration music, assisting and your body positioning in class.

---

# Page 264

6 .17 Sanskrit can be a challenge as you begin to teach yoga asana. Understanding the basic meaning of words that make up the asanas can help you retain the pronunciation of this powerful language. It can also help you more clearly convey the meaning ofthe poses and align the resonance of your words to deliver potent vibration as you speak.Adhomukha – downward faceAnga – Limb or part of the bodyAnjana – Mother of Hanuman, the monkey deityArdha – HalfAsana – Seat, posture; the third stage of yogaAshta – EightAshtanga – the Eight Limbs of YogaBaddha – Bound, caught, restrained, firmBaka – a craneBandha – bondage or lockBhuja – the arm or shoulderBhujanga – a serpent or snakeChandra – the moonChatur – the number fourDanda – a staff Dhanu – a bow Dwi – two, bothEka – one, singular, onlyGaruda – an eagleHala – a plough Hasta – the hand Janu – the kneeJathara – the stomach or abdomenKapota – a dove or pigeonKarna – the earKona – an angleKurma – a tortoiseMala – a garland or wreathMandala – a circleMatsya – a fishMayura – a peacockMudra – a seal, sealing postureMula – the root, baseNamaskar – a salutation. an Indian greeting consisting of a bowNataraja – A name of Shiva, lord of the dancers.Pada – the foot or legPadangustha – the big toePadma – a lotusParivartana – turning around, revolvingParivrtta – turned around, revolvedParsva – the side, lateralPaschima – West; the back side of the bodyPaschimottana – according to Iyengar “intensestretch of the backside of the body from the nape to the heels”Prana – life force, vitalityPranayama – rhythmic control of breathPida – pain, suffering, pressurePinda – fetus or embryoPrasarita – spread out, stretched outRaja – a king or rulerSalabha – a locustSalamba – with supportSama – same, equal, even, uprightSarva – all, who Setu – a bridge Sirsa – the head Sthiti – stability Supta – sleeping Surya – the sun Svana – a dogTada – a mountainTri – threeUpavistha – seatedUrdhva – raised, elevated, tending upwardsUrdhvamukha – upward faceUstra – a camelUt – a particle denoting intensity Utkata – powerful, fierce, might Uttana – an intense stretchUtthita – extended, stretchedVajra – thunderboltVakra – crookedVasistha – an important sage, author of several Vedic hymnsVinyasa – linking mechanism, link in a skillful wayVira – hero, braveVirabhadra – a powerful hero created out of Shiva’s matted hairVrksa –a treeVrt – to turn, revolve, rollYoga – unionYogi – one who follows the path of yogasanskrit glossaryMain Source: B.K.S. Iyengar’s Light On Yoga

---

# Page 265

C1 Pose Names with Diacritical MarksEnglish TranslationSanskrit Transliteration w/ MarksChild's PosebalāsanaDownward Facing DogadhomukhaśvanāsanaForward Fold/RagdolluttānāsanaStanding Equal PosesamasthitiḥMountain Posetadāsanaor utthitahastāsanaHigh to Low PlankcaturaṅgadaṇḍāsanaUpward Facing Dog ūrdhvamukhaśvanāsanaChair Pose (Thunderbolt)utkaṭāsanaWarrior 2vīrabhadrāsanaIIExtended Side AngleutthitaparśvakoṇāsanaReverse Warrior viparītavīrabhadrāsanaor parvṛttavīrabhadrāsanaCrescent Lunge anjaneyāsanaRevolved Crescent LungeparvṛttaañjaneyāsanaSide PlankvasiṣṭāsanaPrayer Twist parvṛttautkaṭāsanaHands to Feet (Gorilla)pādahastāsanaCrow PosebakāsanaEagle PosegaruḍāsanaDancer's PosenaṭarājāsanaTree PosevṛkṣāsanaWarrior 1vīrabhadrāsanaITriangle Pose trīkonāsanaWide Leg Forward FoldprasārītapādottānāsanaHalf Pigeon (One Legged)eka pādarājakapotāsanaCobra PosebhujañgāsanaFloor BowdhanurāsanaCamel PoseuṣṭrāsanaBridge Posesetubandāsanaor setubandha sarvañgāsanaReclined Bound AnglesuptabaddhakonāsanaSeated Forward FoldpaścimottānāsanaHappy BabyānandabālāsanaSupine Twist (stomach twisting)jaṭharaparivartanāsanaCorpse PoseśavāsanaEasy Seatsukhāsana6 .19© Yoga Flow YOGA

---

# Page 266

6 .20© Yoga Flow YOGA PranayamaPranayama is the fourth limb of the AshtangaYoga path. It’s all about guiding life force through the conscious expansion and extension of breath.Prana means life force or vital energy and Yama translates to guide to expansion, extension or constraint.The breath is an essential and foundationalcomponent to all yoga postures and is a prioritythroughout class. The breath should be artfully and consistently cued. Oxygen is the most vital nutrient in our bodies and essential for proper and efficient functioning of the entire body - our brain, nerves, muscles and internal organs. We could live for days without food and water, however without oxygen a few short minutes is fatal. The benefits of mindful breathing include:-Balances energy in the body and mind-Increases body, mind connection-Supplies fresh oxygen to the whole body, cells and muscles-Removal of waste products and toxins from our body-Expands and stretches the rib cage, lungs, core and back-Utilizes full lung capacity, increasing oxygen exchange rates-Calms or energizes the nervous system-Can reverse stress responses; tension,headaches, anxiety, concentration challengesPranayama is often practiced seated andindependent from physical yoga postures. In Yoga Flow Yoga, we utilize a specific type ofpranayama to enliven and mindfully link postures in our practice.UJJAYI PRANAYAMAIn Sanskrit the prefix “ud” means upward orexpanding, and conveys a sense of preeminence or power. The suffix “jaya” means conquest or success and from another point of view, restraint. Sotogether - create a conscious, audible, victorious breath.This breath is achieved by slightly constrictingthe vocal chords or the back of the throat as you would when fogging up a mirror, then inhalingand exhaling through the constriction of thethroat with a closed mouth. This creates a slow, rhythmic breath that expands lung capacitythrough increasing the vacuum effect in the lungs and sending air into the bottom lobes where the efficiency of oxygen transfer is the greatest. The audible sound, and the slow, dynamic oxygenation of the blood and body, creates the victoriouspractice.Ujjayi Pranayama breath slows and smoothsthe flow of breath, which in and of itself would be sufficient benefit, but there is so much more value to utilizing this breath. Performing thistype of pranayama during asana practice focuses awareness on long slow breathing by constantregulation of the constriction at the back to the throat and the sound that it creates. The breath is slightly warmed through the friction the aircreates flowing over a slightly narrowed back ofthe throat which helps the body to oxygenate the blood efficiently. The slowing of the breath allows the bottom lobes of the lungs to fill and increases the breath capacity while providing more energy for the practitioner.The inhale is usually harder to keep a narrowthroat, but regain that shape with each exhaleand you will soon be able to maintain this slow and smooth breath continuously, even as you practice! The challenge of keeping the throat position and

---

# Page 267

6 .21 the breath consistent helps to focus the mind and will help advance your mental practice as wellas the benefits to your energy during physicalpractice. As you teach, remember to release people back to natural breathing during Savasana to letthem completely relax and receive during that final posture.ACTIVITYTo give Ujjayi breathing a try, inhale naturally through your nose and exhale through your mouth on a “HA”. Regulateyour breath for a 6 countnasal inhale and 6 count open mouth “HA” exhale for a fewbreaths. Once your breath is smooth, observe the slightnarrowing at the back of your throat, and keep that as youclose your mouth and inhaleand exhale through your nose.The sound you create willresemble the ocean or a “Darth Vader” breath. Now release the constricted throat and returnto your natural breath. Observe the change in your mind andbody from just a few minutes of this breath practice.
“For breath is life, and if you breathe well you will live long on earth.” Sanskrit Proverb© Yoga Flow YOGA

---

# Page 268

Intro to MeditationMeditation gives you what nothing else can give you: it introduces you to yourself. —Swami RamaThe self abides in its own nature. Patañjali, Yoga Sūtra1.3Meditation(stems frommeditatum, a Latin term meaning “to ponder”)is a training of your attention that awakens you beyond your conditioned mind and habitual thinking, andreveals the present moment. Meditation is a method of bringing yourselves to a place of restful attention in which you are more receptive and responsive to the world around you. Oldestdocumentedevidence of the practice of meditation are wall arts in the Indian subcontinent from approximately 5,000 to 3,500 BCE, showing people seated in meditative postures with half-closed eyesOldest written mention of meditation is from 1,500 BCE in the Vedas. The BrihadAranyaka Upanishad(f14th century BCE) lists nearly 70 generations of meditation gurus and students. In the Yoga Sūtras, the sage Patañjalidefines meditation in four Sanskrit words: yoga cittavrittinirodha“one-ness is the progressive quieting of the fluctuations of the mind”. (Yoga Sūtra1.2)There are many forms of meditation including Buddhist forms, and Hindu, and Kabalistic, and Jewish meditations, and Christian mystical, and Sufi, and Muslim, and Baha'i, and Zoroaster, and many more. 6th century BCE, Siddhartha Gautama (later to be known as the Buddha) left his royal life as a prince and set out to attain Enlightenment. Over the next several centuries, Buddhism spread all over Asia, and many different lineages were formed, such as the Buddhist styles of meditation (Vipassana), Loving-Kindness and Walking Meditation. Vipassana Insight meditation is at the heart of the teachings of awakening. Its purpose is to strengthen our capacity to experience “things as they are” directly, without the filter of thinking, judging or reacting. It consists of bringing a clear attention to whatever occurs in the present moment. There are many forms of Vipassana. Each style focuses on some aspect of the shifting experience of body and mind. -Goenka, focus primarily on bodily sensations. -MogokSayadaw, focus on mind directly. -Ajahn Naeb, focus on suffering. -MahasiSayadaw, note all experiences moment by moment.

---

# Page 269

Research on MeditationChopra CenterStudy with chronic heart disease patients and evening gratitude journal showeddecreased markers for inflammation andincreased levels of dopamine, serotonin, andoxytocinShawn AchorStudy with 80+ year old men that tested as high pessimists;after 21 days of two minutes of gratitude ormeditation tested as low optimistsBrenéBrownInterviews with people who test as highly joyful or high in the ability to experience joyfulemotions show that they all havesome form of a gratitude practiceREFLECTIONWhat are your supports/constants or skillful means? §Anchor of the breath§Sounds§Body sensations§Body scan§Mental noting§Loving-kindness§Compassion§Forgiveness Do you bring in other types of practice? §Mantra§Prayer§Guided imagery -Do you tend towards tight or loose effort? -What is the balance of directed attention and choiceless, open awareness? MISCONCEPTIONS-A shallow meditation is less valuable than a deep meditation-No thought is the only good meditation-Fidgeting, looking at your watchisbreaking your meditation-Falling asleep, head nodding is bad-If youdon’thave a perfect space,it’snot worth itBEST PRACTICES-The only prerequisite is a commitment to your practice and your own well being.-Schedule them, make them a rock/non-negotiable.-Tell the people you live with so they can respect and support your time commitment.-Try easy, be gentle, and remember consistency vs. intensity.-As you continue to practice mindfulness and strengthen your ability to observe, feel, and be in themoment,you may first noticethat we still react with our old familiar ways. -Keep in mind that this is a learning process (or unlearning process)and it takes time and practiceto transform old habits.-Most of our habits have been with us since childhood; think of how long you’ve been perfectingthem!-Practice kindness, practice patience, practice acceptance.ReferencesTara Brach -Meditation, Psychologist, Author, TeacherThe Wise Heart: A Guide to the Universal Teachings of Buddhist Psychologyby Jack KornfieldLovingkindness: The Revolutionary Art of Happinessby Sharon SalzbergBreath by Breath: The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditationby Larry RosenbergInstinctive Meditation™(lorinroche.com)Sunita Patil https://sunitayoga.com6 .23 © Yoga Flow YOGA

---

# Page 270

ExperienceMetta MeditationSit comfortably and quietly and relax your body. Take some moments to feel your breath: breathe in, sense that you are receiving warmth and energy; breathe out, sense that you are letting go into openness. Silently or in a whisper, begin offering yourself prayers of lovingkindness. -May I be filled with lovingkindness; may I be held in lovingkindness. -May I feel safe and at ease. -May I feel protected from inner and outer harm. May I be happy. -May I accept myself just as I am. -May I touch deep, natural peace. -May I know the natural joy of being alive. May I find true refuge within my own being. -May my heart and mind awaken; may I be free. As you repeat each phrase, open to whatever images and feelings arise with the words. Approach the meditation as an exploration to notice what arises. Throughout the day: The more you remember to regard yourself with kindness, the more readily you will find a sense of connectedness and compassion. reflectionHow did you feel immediately after your meditation?What did you notice about your breath or body?
What resonated with you in this experience and what may have not?

---

# Page 271

ExperienceBody ScanFind a tall seat or remain reclined (option for broken bridge). Begin by bringing your attention into your body. You can close your eyes if that’s comfortable for you. Take a few slow, deep breaths. And as you take a deep breath, bring in more oxygen enlivening the body. And as you exhale, have a sense of relaxing more deeply. You can notice your feet on the floor, notice the sensations of your feet touching the floor. The weight and pressure, vibration, heat. You can notice your legs against the chair, pressure, pulsing, heaviness, lightness. Notice your back against the chair. Bring your attention into your stomach area. If your stomach is tense or tight, let it soften. Take a breath. Notice your hands. Are your hands tense or tight? See if you can allow them to soften. Notice your arms. Feel any sensation in your arms. Let your shoulders be soft. Notice your neck and throat. Let them be soft. Relax. Soften your jaw. Let your face and facial muscles be soft. Then notice your whole bodypresent.Take one more breath. Be aware of your whole body as best you can. Take a breath. And then when you’re ready, you can open your eyes. reflectionHow did you feel immediately after your meditation?What did you notice about your breath or body?
What resonated with you in this experience and what may have not?

---
