---
title: 'Cervical Vertebrae C1 - C7'
slug: 'cervical-vertebrae-c1-c7'
group: 'Training'
order: 87
summary: '5 .8 © Yoga Flow YOGA SpineCENTRAL AXIS OF THE BODYThe Central Axis is usually composed of 33 Vertebrae with the coccyx is at the very tip-7 Cervical Vertebrae (C1-C7)-12 Thoracic '
tags: []
---

5 .8 © Yoga Flow YOGA SpineCENTRAL AXIS OF THE BODYThe Central Axis is usually composed of 33 Vertebrae with the coccyx is at the very tip-7 Cervical Vertebrae (C1-C7)-12 Thoracic Vertebrae (T1-T12)-5 Lumbar (L1-L5)-5 sacral vertebrae fused together (S1-S5)-4 frequently fused Coccygeal Vertebrae, also known as the tailbone4 NATURAL CURVESTogether these four curves provide balance and fluid movement. They act as shock absorbers;transferring and dispersing energy. Without the curves, our movements would be rigid and tight and we would not be able to twist, bend, and extend like we do in our yoga postures.1.Cervical Lordosis curve toward front body2.Thoracic Kyphosis curve toward back body3.Lumbar Lordosis curve toward front body4.Sacral Kyphosis curve toward back bodyWEAK LINKSWe tend to move in these areas more because of the ease compared to the rest of the spine. Asa result, these areas become more mobile while other parts of the spine become tighter which can lead to injury. In yoga, we tend to:-Hinge at the lower neck C7-T1-Flare ribs T12-L1-Overarch through the lower back L5-S1SPINAL MOTION-Flexion Sagittal Plane, in a Forward Fold-Extension Sagittal Plane, in a Backbend-Lateral Flexion Frontal Plane Bends right and left, in a Side Bend-Rotation Transverse Plane rotates right and left, in a Twist-Axial Extension Elevate each vertebrae for maximum disc space, when you sit up as straight as you canLUMBAR PELVIC RHYTHMIn Yoga, it is important to lead from the spine with the head in neutral alignment and to bend theknees as needed to maintain the natural Lumbar-Pelvic Rhythm. If hamstrings are tight, it willprevent this movement so a bend in the knees is necessary and will help support the proper form and alignment. The natural lumbar-pelvic rhythm is the simultaneous action of lumbar flexion and forward tilt of the pelvis in the sagittal planeduring trunk flexion.
Cervical Vertebrae C1 - C7
Thoracic Vertebrae T1 - T12
Lumbar Vertebrae I1 - I5Sacral Vertebrae S1 - S5Coccyx

---

# Page 226

ACTIVITYBend forward. This is lumbar flexion followed by forward tilting of thepelvis at the hip joints (“duck butt” movement). Stand upright and bend forward again. Notice that theseare two separate movements of the body, low back forward folding and forward tilting of the pelvis. These motions must happen at the sametime in any forward fold to be safe on the low back, otherwise we unsafely put pressure on the lumbar spinaldiscs. If there is not enough length in the hamstrings, the knees mustbe bent to create slack for the pelvis to tilt forward. Initiate a return tothe standing posture by the reverse movement - the backwards tiltingof the pelvis at the hips followed by extension (opposite of a forwardfold) of the lumbar spine to return to neutral.
lumbarsacrum
hip jointmore reading recosIf you want to dive deeper, try these...Yoga Anatomy, 2nd Edition Leslie Kaminoff and Amy MatthewsThe Anatomy of Hatha Yoga: A Manual for Students, Teachers and Practitioners H. David CoulterAnatomy Trains Thomas MyersYogabody: Anatomy, Kinesiology, and AsanaJudith Hanson LasaterThe Key Muscles of Yoga: Scientific Keys, Vol 1Ray Long and Chris MacivorThe Anatomy Coloring Book Wynn Kapit and Lawrence Elsonwatch Anatomy for Yoga with Paul Grilley DVDvisit getbodysmart.com

---

# Page 227

5.10 © Yoga Flow YOGA JointsJoints are locations on the body where two ormore bones make contact. Joints are constructed to allow movement and provide support. They are designed to be innately frictionless, absorb and control impact. Healthy joints house frictionless movement and mitigate external impact. In yoga, we focus on three types of joints:Hinge AThese function to allow mobility in forward andbackward movements or flexion and extension and to limit other mobility. ex. elbow, kneeBall and Socket BThe have the greatest mobility, allowing formovement in all 3 planes. Functional movementis for changing direction when walking, running or reaching. ex. hip, shoulderIntervertebral or Compressive JointLocated between the vertebrae of the spine, these allow limited mobility but provide great stability to protect the spinal cord.MOBILITY VS. STABILITYBeing mindful about joint structure will support you in choosing and teaching yoga posesappropriately with the best intentions for yourstudents. The shoulder joint is commonly injured due to its great range of motion and lack ofstability. Proper alignment in shoulder activating yoga poses will greatly reduce the risk of injury.Inherent joint stability depends on the shape of the adjacent bones, density of connective tissue surrounding the joint capsule and strength ofmuscles that cross the joint. Joints with increased mobility due to adjacent bones tend to provideless innate structural stability. These joints require additional support from soft tissue structures(muscles, tendons, ligaments). Structuralimbalance or weakness of the supporting tissuessurrounding mobile joints introduces increased riskof injury (subluxation, impingement or dislocation).Conversely, joints with more innate structural stability due to adjacent bones tend towarddecreased mobility. Because of the enhanced stability, these joints do not rely on additional support from soft tissue structures.Example of Increased Mobility: Shoulder Joint Because of the shallow, cup-like shape of the outward-facing portion of the scapula (glenoidfossa) which does not completely house the head of the humerus (upper arm). The range of motionavailable is flexion, extension, abduction, horizontal ab/adduction, internal and external rotation,circumduction. In yoga, Eagle arms.Example of Increased Stability: Hip JointBecause of the shape and surface-to-surface contact area of the joint itself, created by theconnection between spherical head of the femurbone (the ball) within the acetabulum of the pelvis (the socket), and the vertical orientation of thejoint during weight bearing (standing), the hip joint is innately stable. While the structure of hip jointclassifies it similar to the shoulder joint as a “ball and socket” joint, the depth and orientation (down and out) of the acetabulum (socket) of the pelvis,as compared to the glenoid fossa (socket) of the scapula is what increases the stability of the hip joint versus that of the shoulder joint. Similar tothe shoulder joint, motions available at the hip joint are: flexion-extension, ab/adduction, and internal and external rotation, as well as circumduction. In yoga, supine figure-four.
