---
title: Fundamental Formulas
slug: fundamental-formulas
group: Teacher Toolkit
order: 7
summary: >-
  BPCCUE FORMULA Great teachers select the fewest, most powerful cues to set
  their student up for success in each pose. The Cue Formula gives you the tools
  to setup your students for…
tags: []
---
# Fundamental Formulas

BPCCUE FORMULA Great teachers select the fewest, most powerful cues to set their student up for success in each pose. The Cue Formula gives you the tools to setup your students for success. These cues can help setup a transition, setup a pose or deepen the pose. These three types of cues all rely on the Cue Formula: Verb > Your > Body Part > Direction
1. Start with a Verb
2. Use the qualifier “Your” to create connection with your students
3. Select a Body Part using common vernacular rather than anatomical names that might be unfamiliar
4. Give a clear Directiontomovetowardsorto Transition Cues Transition cues help give clarity on how the student should move between poses. Transition cues can be engaged or disengaged from breath. For example: From Downward Facing Dog to Forward Fold“Inhale, look forward. Exhale, walk to the top of your mat.”From Ragdoll“Release your fingertips to the mat. Toe-heel your feet together.”Setup Cues Use essential cues to help your students move into the general shape of the pose. For example: In Warrior Two, first cue the feet and legs then move the spine, arms and head into the pose.“Spin your back heel down. Lift your chest to face the side of your space. Reach your arms forward and back. Gaze towards your front hand. Deepening Cues Select cues that help your student move deeper into the pose once they’re already in the generalform. These cues can also be Muscle Action or Theme Action cues. For example: In Extended Side Angle“Draw your tailbone toward your back heel.”“Reach up with your top hand to engage your obliques.”
- --

BREATH FORMULA In Power Vinyasa Yoga, we move with breath. There are times in class where we move onebreath to movement and times where we land at a posture and hold for multiple breaths. To let our students know when we are going to hold a pose we add the Breath Formula. To disengage breath we use “Breathe” or “Breathe Here” and to reengage breath we use“Inhale.”Engage (Inhale) / Disengage (Breathe Here) / Reengage (Inhale)If you arrived at the posture on Inhale, you must disengage with “Breathe Here” to letstudents know they should continue breathing on their own. This is not needed if you arrived at the posture on Exhale, because their breath will disengage naturally. Whenever you’re ready tobegin again, reengage with “Inhale.”MUSCLE ACTION CUE Muscle Action Cues (MAC) deepen the student’s experience in a pose and creates a mind and body connection. In addition to cues that setup the general form of the cues, you can use muscle action cues to deepen an experience in a pose physically or energetically. The Muscle Action Cue is the Cue Formula followed by the reason for the action cued. Verb > Your > Body Part > Direction + Why Forexample:“Pressyourhandsdowntoactivateyourchestandshoulders.”PLANES FORMULA Typical setup cues only require moving certain parts of the body to get students into the posebecause a flow is intelligently sequenced to easilylink poses, With deepening cues, you often want to address the entire body to enliven the pose fromthe inside out and deepen your students experience of the pose. To make this powerful and assure that your students are following along with you, utilizethe Planes Formula to cue from the ground up. This organized approach to deepening cues will helpfocus and quiet the mind of your students as well as calm your own mind and nerves. Feet + Legs > Pelvis + Spine > Arms + Head
THEME FORMULA The Theme Formula creates a space for you as the teacher to share your present learnings. Theming creates an experience that goes beyond the physical postures. You can create an impactful theme with just a few pieces: Launchyour theme and distill it to one word. Create an Experience of your theme with Theme Action Cues such as theme-inspired verbs, imagery, metaphors, theme-inspired questions or bring in learnings that inspire you. Landyour theme by connecting it to a Call to Action or Learning beyond class. Launch > Experience > Land For example: BPC: “Inhale Mountain Pose. Reach your arms up.” Disengage the breath: “Breathe here.”Continue to cue the pose and when you are ready to move, reengage the breath:“Inhale, Exhale Forward Fold.”
- --

MOVEMENT Cue Action on beat for 2 full repetitions Cue Breath on beat for 2 full repetitions COACHING Share options to regress or progress Offer basic, muscle action and thematic cues COUNTDOWN From 8 or 4 and cue what is next Forexamplein Basic Crunches: Findthebeatofthemusicthen: MOVEMENT: Lift, lower, lift, lower Exhale, Inhale, Exhale, Inhale COACHING: Liftyourfeetuptointensitytheworkinyourlegs Taketabletoplegstosupportyourback Takeaconfidentexhalewitheachcrunch! COUNTDOWN Last…4…3…releasein 2…1 MUSCLE ACTION DRILL Muscle Action Drills are repeated muscle action to create a desired outcome or teach a skill. Use the Music Formula to cue Muscle Action Drills. For example, to teach hip extension and hamstring activation, add a pulse in Three-Leg Dog:“Inhale Three-Leg Dog, Lift your right leg high”Pulse, pulse, exhale, exhale Extend your heel up and point your toes down Kick your heel towards the sky to tone your glute Last 8…MUSIC FORMULA The Music Formula can be utilized in certain sections of class such as Core or during Muscle Action Drills. Music helps to connect the class together and when used well, can lower the Rate of Perceived Exertion. The music’s beat drives the Music Formula. Movement > Coaching > Countdown
- --

2 .8© Yoga Flow YOGA Fundamental Formulas Practice MUSCLE ACTION CUE (MAC)Create MA Cs for the following poses: Downward Facing Dog Mountain Pose BASIC FORMULA Upgrade the cues below below using the Basic Formula On your Inhale find Tadasana Mountain Pose and then lift your arms up in space to the sky above you Chair Pose inhale, and lift your arms up Exhale, Forward Fold draw your hands through your chest and fold from your hips CUE FORMULA Upgrade the cues below below using the Cue Formula Pressing your hands down Squeeze those thighs together BREATH FORMULA Upgrade the cues below below using the Breath Formula Exhale Ragdoll, step your feet behind your wrists Inhale Mountain Pose, reach your arms up, press your feet down. Pull your navel in towards your spine. Exhale Forward Fold, breathe here. MUSIC FORMULA Use the Music Formula to create cues: Reclined Bound Angle Crunches
- --

2 .9 © Yoga Flow YOGA
