# Transition Pose:IN –Mountain PoseEX –Hot Half Moon Pose

Sequencing BasicsA Transition Pose is a pose that occurs right before the pose you are in. It often shares key alignment principles or posture similarities.
A Preview Pose is a foundational pose that consists of posture similarities and key alignment principles necessary to build up to your Focus Pose or Muscle Focus. When used in sequencing, these two concepts support the understanding of safe transitions and the sequencing of poses based on similarities rather than differences. This is also known as vinyasa krama or intelligent sequencing.
Transition Pose:IN –Mountain PoseEX –Hot Half Moon Pose
Preview Pose:IN –Crescent MoonFocus Pose:IN –Wheel PoseWhen sequencing, build from the C1 template with the added ability to add intelligent intensity, new postures, and add progressions or layers. As you consider building a new sequence, review the Series Intention and work with a Focus Pose or Muscle Focus.Includeall7movementsofthe spine: •Flexion/extension –bend forward and back•Rotation left/right–twist side to side•Lateral flexion left/right –bend side to side•Axial extension –decompress(lengthen) yourspineBest PracticesPlace postures next to each other based on similarity instead of difference (see Transition and Preview Pose). Postures should be placed to help build a skillset for postures later in the sequence and prepares the body for complex postures without overly fatiguing. Blueprint Postures also serve as the foundation of your sequence. TransitionsMoving from one pose to another requires well-cued and thought out transitions. In Vinyasa, we use the breath to support movement. Typically, when we move away from the ground or expand, we inhale. When moving towards the ground or contracting, we exhale. In addition, when sequencing change no more than 2 major body positions per transition. For example: Ideal:Inhale Crescent Lunge àExhale Warrior 2 Requires a change in1.Leg and pelvis position with heel down2.Torso position to face the side Not ideal:Exhale Prayer Twist àInhale/Exhale Warrior 2 Requires a change in1.Leg position from together to apart2.Pelvis position from facing forward to facing side3.Change in hip and knee flexion4.Spine position from twist to neutral2.19© COREPOWER YOGA


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-038.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-040.md)
