# Page 207

4.19 © COREPOWER YOGA A contraindication is a factor that makes a yoga technique inadvisable. Many students will come to class with specific injuries or ailments. As aninstructor, it is important that we are able to accommodate them to the best of our ability.Please be aware of people’s conditions, and use your knowledge of the body to be responsive to individual needs.Ironically enough, the poses that may be mostdifficult for people with injuries may also be theones that help them the most when they’re on the road to recovery.INVERSIONSAny pose where the heart is above the head should not be attempted by those with:•High blood pressure•Low blood pressure•Glaucoma or any type of eye trauma•Any type of heart diseaseKNEE INJURIESAvoid any poses that bring the knee to less than a 90 degree angle and always maintain precise alignment of the knee.HIP REPLACEMENT / INJURIESBe extremely careful bringing the leg across the midline,and be very careful with any type of hip- opening poses, including the warrior poses and pigeon poses.SHOULDER INJURIESAvoid any type of arm strengthening poses,especially Chaturanga Dandasana. Depending on the degree of the injury, range of motion couldeven be limited as far as an inability to lift the arm very far away from the body.LOW BACK INJURIESIf the injury resides in the sacrum, advise the student to maintain a flat back on any type ofContraindicationsforward fold. If the injury resides in the lumbar spine, limit backbends potentially only to Cobra or variations of Shalabasana. Fifty percent of Americans have lower back injuries - be verycareful and attentive to people’s needs.PREGNANCYPregnant women should avoid:•Compression of belly - rounding in forward folds, core work, pulling belly up and in, etc.•Twisting postures closing off the pelvis - Seated Twist, Reverse Half Moon•Revolved Crescent Lunge•Lying on back for too long•Lying on belly•Full Up Dog when belly is too large•Heat – use caution at least for the first trimester•Jumping forwardThese postures can help:•Vertical Frog – any opening of the pelvis and front hips will help with childbirth•Wide legged forward folds - opening of the hips•Gentle Backbends – Standing Backbend, Camel, Dancers/Standing Bow•High and Side Plank – modified or full posture•Child’s Pose – wide-legged•Eagle – Helps facilitate movement of thelymphatic system to promote immunity and decrease swelling of jointsNotes on Prenatal FlowThe following list of postures is a guide based on the basic C1 Class. Please listen to your body and know that you are your own best teacher. Move slowly and with awareness in and out of postures as you would in any yoga class. You will hear themessages from your body in different ways than you may have in the past. Acknowledge those messages and honor your body. Fatigue may be a factor for you. If you feel as though you need a rest, take it. Remember, this is not only about you, this is alsoabout your baby. Balance may come and go depending on the day. Experiment with your postures, noticing whether you feel unstable. If so, back down for the day. It is much better to err on the side of caution than to put your baby at risk.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-206.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-208.md)
