# Page 36

2 .15© COREPOWER YOGA Plank, High to Low Plank on your knees, Upward Facing Dog and Downward Facing Dog.Finally, let them know that a third is to hold High Plank and then press directly back to Downward Facing Dog. You do not need to physically demothis option.BOAT POSEFrom Bicycle Sit-ups, ask your students to roll up to seated with knees bent and feet flat on theground. Recommended location is in the front of the room facing your students so they can seeyou and you can see their alignment while you cue them into layers of the pose. This is a demo where they work with you into the pose as you cue. You will give options for layers in this pose so people can choose which layer is best for them to playtheir edge while maintaining a long spine. Thistrains the fundamental muscle actions in the whole wall of core muscles in this pose.Keep your feet on the ground and bring your hands behind your thighs. Lengthen your spine as youdraw your shoulder blades together down yourback. Cue them through this as you demonstrate. Give them the option to stay here or keep following you. Lean back while you maintain a long spineand lift your feet up to bring your shins parallel to the floor. Again, give them the option to stayhere or continue with you. Extend your arms out to the side. Once you have held the pose for a breath or two, you can come out of the pose and movearound the room again.CROW POSEFrom Downward Facing Dog, ask your students to come to their knees and watch the demonstration or if they are familiar with Crow Pose, to moveinto the pose. Crow Pose is a physically demanding and sometimes intimidating pose. Encourage your students to try it in steps; even shifting the weightforward into their hands is very empoweringEmphasize bringing weight into the front triad of the palm (where the first finger inserts into the palm) to relieve pressure in the back of the palm at the wrist. The shift forward and squeezing ofthe inner thighs into the upper arms bolsters core strength and provides elevation.WARRIOR TWOReiterate the importance of keeping the frontknee stacked directly over the front ankle. It is also important to explain the engagement of the backleg. Direct students to point their foot slightlyforward and engage through their back quadricep.You can also help students identify the position of their upper body and direct them to bring their shoulders directly over their hips. It can be helpful to show your students the extremes (too farforward or too far back) and then end with a visual of a properly aligned torso.EXTENDED SIDE ANGLEAcknowledge the fact that the foundation ofExtended Side Angle is the same as Warrior Two.Emphasize the importance of keeping the frontknee stacked over the ankle and the engagement of the back leg. Additionally, draw attentionto ways in which students can adjust commonLOOK FOR . Show your students what it means to lift your ribs away from your front thigh andto keep the bottom shoulder drawn down. It’s isalso helpful to address the placement of the front arm/hand. Let your students know that it is more important to maintain a long torso than to touch the floor with their front hand. Give your students permission to bring their forearm to their thigh as a great option and show them what this looks like.REVERSE WARRIORLike Warrior Two and Extended Side Angle, the foundation for this pose remains the same. While the upper body shifts, remind your students to


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-035.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-037.md)
