# Page 260

6 .14NIYAMASSaucha CleanlinessCleanliness and purity can be practiced on anumber of different levels. A clean environment and living space: clear clutter, keep belongings organized and practice good feng shui. Aclean body: clean diet, good hygiene, well- kept appearance. A clean mind: consider theamount and the quality of the information you are inputting on a daily basis and be selective about the books and magazines you read, howmuch time you spend online and what television shows and movies you choose to consume. Clean company: spend time with people who uplift yourspirit and inspire you to be your best and set clear boundaries if you have toxic people in your life.Santosha ContentmentLook to yourself and your own innate goodness for happiness; that is the only place you will trulyfind it. Santosha also means being present. Rather than wishing for things to be different in your life, accept and appreciate the reality of what is. Doyou really need things to be different to be happy?Choose to be happy now. Cultivate santosha by making gratitude a daily practice. Notice themoments you are happy, even if they seem to be few and far between. Keep a gratitude journal. Count your blessings. Remind yourself often, “I have enough. I am enough.”Tapas Self DisciplineTransform yourself in the fire of positive change! The term tapas means “heat” and it refers to the discomfort that comes with breaking habitualthought and behavioral patterns to effect positive transformation in your life. If you have ever tried to break a bad habit, you will know that processis often accompanied by physical discomfort. You also recognize that the discomfort is a necessarystep toward the change you are seeking. Having tapas is rolling out your yoga mat and doing your practice, even when you’d rather stay home and watch TV and eat chips. It’s pulling an all-nighter to finish an important assignment to the best of your ability. Or holding an uncomfortable yogapose for those last three difficult breaths because you know it will make you stronger.Svadhyaya Self StudyBe aware of your actions as they are happening. Reflect on them later. Use your reflections to make positive changes to your actions in the future.Taking time to reflect quietly on your day through journaling or contemplation is a wonderful way to practice svadhyaya. Studying of yoga texts andscriptures is also said to be a form of svadhyaya, as you are studying the highest self.“The person practicing svadhyaya reads his own book of life, at the same time that he writes and revises it.”- B.K.S. Iyengar, Light on YogaIsvara-pranidhana SurrenderGive your life force energy to something higher than yourself. This is devotion and surrenderfor the small self to the higher self. We practiceisvara-pranidhana every time we dedicate or offer up our yoga practice to someone else. This has apowerful effect on your practice. It creates new sense of purpose when your practice is infusedwith intention and energy. Isvara-pranidhana also means letting go of doubt and making room for faith.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-259.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-261.md)
