# Page 38

2.18© COREPOWER YOGA Music and YogaMusic is a form of yoga—Nada yoga, or the yoga of sound. Nada yoga is a way to approach music with reverence. Music in this context is more than justsomething you like or don’t like. It becomes a way to create harmony between your inner and outer world.Music can be very influential in setting the tone for a class. To begin forming your first playlist, startlistening with intention and reverence. Take yogaclasses from a variety of teachers and note of how different music affects you and your practice. Ifthe teacher is comfortable sharing their music, collect artists and songs from their playlist.On your first playlist, start slow. You will have a lot to manage in the classroom in your first fewclasses. A playlist ideally adds to the atmosphere of a class in a positive way. If you feel you need to turn your music down, because it is distracting,that is a good sign that you need to change your playlist. It’s highly recommended that you startout with a predominately instrumental or ambient mix.CREATE A PLAYLISTGreat playlists create a mood or tone of harmony and follows the intensity of class. A good place to start is instrumental or ambient music on Spotify or iTunes. Try Lifescapes, Buddha Bar, Yoga Fit or Putumayo Presents. Once you are comfortable in the classroom and are ready for more creativity,try Pandora to find new artists or YouTube tocheck out songs you hear on the radio, TV, movies or elsewhere.To get started, take each section of your sequence and define the intensity level of the physical poses. What type of songs would work for each section? What qualities of music would aid this sectionof the sequence? You’ll want to create an order or sequence of songs that match the intensity of each section.Try starting with calmer songs, build the energy to a climax and then come back to calm music.Use the different tempos of music to create amusic sequence that follows the flow of your class.Create smooth transitions from one song to thenext—consider whether one song builds to the next or drops off too dramatically.Listen to a song all the way through beforechoosing to put it on a playlist. Pay attention to the lyrics—ask yourself, “Are they appropriatelyrics for a yoga setting?” If not, skip it. Remember a playlist is an act of service to your students’practice, not only about what you like.Now take the lists you have made and begin tocraft a playlist for your basic sequence of poses. Play the music as you practice the full class. How did it feel? What worked and didn’t work? Makeadjustments until you have a playlist that matches the intensity and intention for each section of your class.
Music as Energy: What music will support the higher energy part of class vs lower, calmer parts?CLASS AS A BELL CURVE


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-037.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-039.md)
