# Page 23

2.2 © COREPOWER YOGA Thesearetheessentialcomponentsof asolidand wellbalancedyogaclass.You’llwanttokeepthese inmindevery timeyouteach.1 PHYSICAL YOGA POSTURES (ASANA)Asana is firmness of body, steadiness of mind and benevolence of spirit. The intention is to practice yoga postures to develop strength, stillness andendurance in the physical body while cultivating intelligence in the mind, kindness in our actionsand generosity in spirit. In this way, yoga postures strengthen the body, mind and spirit.2BREATH(PRANA)Rhythmic control of the breath or pranayama is practiced at CorePower Yoga. The breath facilitates being present in the moment; it builds heat and energy in the bodyand it links the postures.3 FLOW (VINYASA)Vinyasa is a steady dynamic flow of connected yoga postures linked with the breath. Vinyasa is derived from the Sanskrit term nyasa, which means “to place,” and the prefix vi, “in a special way,” as in the linking of one asana to the next. In yoga asana (postures), the most common understanding of Vinyasa is a flowing sequence of specific asanas coordinated with the movements of the breath.4 HEAT (TAPAS)Tapas or warms the muscles allowing a safe practice at a deeper level. In CorePower Yoga, accelerated detoxification occurs throughsweating. Yoga Class Essentials5 GAZE (DRISHTI) AND FOCUS (DHARANA)Drishti is a point of focus held while practicing a yoga posture. The use of drishtiallowsthe mind to focus and move into a deeperstate of concentration or dharana and a profound state of attention and focus.6 ALIGNMENT AND SAFETYKeep alignment and safety in mind as you lead class. Be precise and concise with your cues and teach to the experience level of your students.7ABDOMINALLOCK(UDDIYANABANDHA)Uddiyanabandha is an energetic lock that keeps life energy at the center of the body. It creates a solid foundation, stability, balance and alignmentin postures. Physically, the diaphragm lifts into the chest and the abdominal organs pull toward thespine.8ESTABLISHRHYTHMSetthepaceandflowearlyintheclass.Bepredictable–allowyourstudentstorelyonrhythmicbreathandposecues.Maintaincontinuityandconsistency;keepasteadyrhythm,notjustinoneclass,butthroughoutallclasses.9 SET STUDENTS UP FOR SUCCESSAlways plan to make the student successful.Sequence the class in a way that will allow them to achieve new heights and succeed in theirpractice and their lives. Approach all aspects ofyour teaching (sequencing, adjusting, cuing, music) from the perspective of setting your students up for success.10 HAVE FUNRespect the yogapractice and enjoy the experience equally. Promotelightness in the way you teach and allow your authentic teacher within to come through.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-022.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-024.md)
