# Page 24

Environment and HeatSET SEQUENCE The Power Vinyasa (C1) sequence is set to create consistency and opportunities to gauge your progress. Layers are a way to teach to all levels. A set sequence also trains the body to practice in a disciplined way. It is also the basis for the C2 sequence at CorePower Yoga that is instructor-inspired and adds heat. HEATPeak performance occurs when the body isfully warm.In Heated C1 and C2 the heat also helps to warm up the body to be ready for deep compressions and extensions from early on in class. Heat guidelines in C1•80•No added humidityHeat guidelines in C2•95F•40% humidityBe mindful of your studio space, the climate in which you teach,the previous state of the room, and class size.MAT PLACEMENTPlace the teacher mat in the front and center of the yoga room.STUDIO SPACEThe yoga room should be neat and clean, freeof debris and unpleasant smells. Cultivate an awareness of studio space and clean up before and after class to create a safe, consistent, and positive experience for students.2.3© COREPOWER YOGA why heat and humidityCorePower Yoga uses heat and humidity to create an environment during a typical class. Heated yoga can impact the body in a number ofways including improved range of motion, flexibility, rate of perceived exertion, circulation and breathing.The presence of both heat and humidity is essential as moist heat is better able to affect muscle tissue than dry heat. At least 40% humidity helps to maintain heat levels in the room and supports sweating. Sweating in dry heat may exacerbate dehydration and lead to discomfort. The heat should enhance the experience.It is recommended that students check with their health provider prior to doing yoga in the heat if they have a history of heat stroke, cardiovascular conditions, heat intolerance or have symptoms of dehydration.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-023.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-025.md)
