# Page 174

Sun BINChairPoseSetup Cue: 1. Bend your knees and sit your hips back2. Reach your arms up Disengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Pin your inner ankles to center your balance2. Close the gap between your hip pointers and ribs to engage your coreINWarrior2Setup Cue: 1. Rise to stand and parallel your back foot with the back of the mat2. Stack your shoulders over your hips and bring your arms out to a TDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Walk your front toes out past your front knee, and deepen your lunge2. Hug your belly towards your spine to engage your core musclesEXExtendedSideAngleSetup Cue: 1. Hinge from your hips and bring your front elbow to your front thigh2. Reach your back arm towards the ceiling or overheadDeepening Cue: 1. Push into both feet to strengthen your foundation2. Lengthen your tailbone towards your back heel to lengthen through your spineINReverseWarriorSetup Cue: 1. Stay low in your lunge2. Reach your front arm up and backDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Press into your back foot to press your hips forward and lift out of your back hip joint2. Draw your ribs together to reconnect to your coreposesSUNBINLookforwardEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXForwardFoldINChairPoseEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDogINThreeLegDogRightLegEXLowLungeINWarrior2EXExtendedSideAngleINReverseWarriorEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDog2xflowLowerdowntoyourkneesforCoreINThreeLegDogLeftLegEXLowLungeINWarrior2EXExtendedSideAngleINReverseWarriorEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDog


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-173.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-175.md)
