# Page 220

5 .3 PLANES OF MOTIONAll basic movements of the body take place inthese three planes of movement and the starting point is the neutral anatomical position.Sagittal PlaneVertical plane that divides the body into left and right, creates forward and backward movement
Frontal PlaneVertical plane that divides the body into front and back, creates side to side movement
Transverse PlaneDivides the body into top and bottom halves, often a twisting movement
their cervical spine. Ideal alignment of the head and neck positions the head stacked directly over the cervical bones of the neck. As the head shifts forward, the neck extensor muscles must work harder to keep the head and visionupright. Over time, the increased chronic stress of those muscles can lead to neck and back pain, TMJ, headaches and eventually disc degeneration, arthritis and decreased cervical spine joint movement.EFFICIENCY OF MOVEMENTEfficiency of movement occurs when using theleast amount of physical, metabolic, and mental effort (energy) with each movement. Movements performed with increased mechanical efficiency can become seemingly effortless. In any physicalactivity, yoga included, muscle coordination is a key factor for increased movement efficiency.Movement efficiency decreases with unnecessary increased muscle action inconsistent with thedirection of motion (decreased movementcoordination). For example, swinging your arms side-to-side while running forward increasesmuscle action but is not necessary to increase your desired forward motion; therefore, decreasingefficiency of the forward movement. Whereas, minimizing the side-to-side movement andcoordinating movement and muscle action in the forward direction would serve to increasemovement efficiency. Moving inefficiently uses more energy and expands more effort, likelydecreasing the amount of time available toparticipate in the activity and contributing to a person’s decreased overall sense of success.In yoga postures, it is important to understand the overall intention of the pose (which area should be working vs. relaxed), and understand overall muscle action to facilitate maximum efficiency, balancedenergy expenditure, increased participation duration, and enhanced sense of success.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-219.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-221.md)
