# Page 27

BREATH FORMULAIn Power Vinyasa Yoga, we move with breath.There are times in class where we move onebreath to movement and times where we land at a posture and hold for multiple breaths. To let our students know when we are going to hold a pose we add the Breath Formula. To disengage breath we use “Breathe” or “Breathe Here” and to reengage breath we use“Inhale.”Engage (Inhale) / Disengage (Breathe Here) / Reengage (Inhale)If you arrived at the posture on Inhale,you must disengage with “Breathe Here” to letstudents know they should continue breathing on their own. This is not needed if you arrived at the posture on Exhale, because their breath will disengage naturally. Whenever you’re ready tobegin again, reengage with “Inhale.”MUSCLE ACTION CUE Muscle Action Cues (MAC) deepen the student’s experience in a pose and creates a mind and body connection. In addition to cues that setup the general form of the cues, you can use muscle action cues to deepen an experience in a pose physically or energetically. The Muscle Action Cue is the Cue Formula followed by the reason for the action cued. Verb > Your > Body Part > Direction + Why Forexample:“Pressyourhandsdowntoactivateyourchestandshoulders.”PLANES FORMULATypical setup cues only require moving certain parts of the body to get students into the posebecause a flow is intelligently sequenced to easilylink poses, With deepening cues, you often want to address the entire body to enliven the pose fromthe inside out and deepen your students experience of the pose. To make this powerful and assure that your students are following along with you, utilizethe Planes Formula to cue from the ground up. This organized approach to deepening cues will helpfocus and quiet the mind of your students as well as calm your own mind and nerves.Feet + Legs > Pelvis + Spine > Arms + Head
THEME FORMULA The Theme Formula creates a space for you as the teacher to share your present learnings. Theming creates an experience that goes beyond the physical postures. You can create an impactful theme with just a few pieces: Launchyour theme and distill it to one word. Create an Experience of your theme with Theme Action Cues such as theme-inspired verbs, imagery, metaphors, theme-inspired questions or bring in learnings that inspire you. Landyour theme by connecting it to a Call to Action or Learning beyond class. Launch > Experience > LandFor example: BPC: “Inhale Mountain Pose. Reach your arms up.” Disengage the breath: “Breathe here.”Continue to cue the pose and when you are ready to move, reengage the breath:“Inhale, Exhale Forward Fold.”


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-026.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-028.md)
