# Page 257

6 .11 © COREPOWER YOGA The eight limbed yogic path is a step-by-step path toward the realization of yoga, or union, with the universal self. The eight limbs progress from themost external and gross practices, to the most internal and subtle practices.YAMAPatanjali’s Yoga Sutra lists five yamas, or moral restraints, which apply specifically to how youbehave outwardly toward other beings.•Ahimsa Non-Violence, Freedom from Harming•Satya Truthfulness•Asteya Non-Stealing, Freedom from Stealing•Brahmacharya Moderation•Aparigraha Non-Hoarding, Freedom from GraspingNIYAMAPatanjali’s Yoga Sutra lists five niyamas, orobservances, which apply specifically to how you conduct yourself on a more personal level.•Saucha Cleanliness•Santosha Contentment•Tapas Self Discipline•Svadhyaya Self Study•Isvara-pranidhana SurrenderASANAOriginally asana referred to a yogi’s meditation seat; the word literally translated means “seat.”It also referred to one’s perspective based on the seat one was in. The view or point of referencechanges based on where or how one sits. This expanded the view of the yogi’s mind. As the practice of yoga has evolved, asana has cometo refer to the practice of all the physical yoga postures. The third limb is about gaining control over our physical bodies. Although the YogaSutra doesn’t say much about the physical asana practice, it does say “Sthira Sukham Asanam,”which means, “steady comfortable seat.” As asana is practiced and refined, challenging poses become more accessible and the practitioner is able to findThe 8 Limb Yogic Pathmore comfort in each pose. Eventually this skill can be taken “off the mat” as well, so that we are able to tread through life with more steadiness andease.PRANAYAMAThe fourth limb, pranayama, refers to one’sown vital energy and life force. It is made up of two Sanskrit words: “prana” which means “lifeforce” or “vital energy” and “yama” which means “expansion” or “extension.” Our breath is ourmost tangible doorway into working with our own energy. For example, if you hold your breath for60 seconds, you may feel agitated or hot. If you were to slow down your exhales so that they were twice as long as your inhales, there would be anoticeable energetic shift. You would feel calmer and a racing mind may begin to slow down. Byworking with our breath, we learn how to manage our energy more skillfully.PRATYAHARAThe fifth limb, pratyahara, means “withdrawal from the senses.” It bridges the gap from theexternal to the internal. In practicing pratyahara, one stops reaching out through the senses toward external stimuli. Energy and attention is directedinward toward the heart and mind, and the yogi is able to transition more easily toward the finalthree limbs. If you want to know your highest self, you can’t only look outward. You must look inward as well, or you will be missing the whole picture.“If you don’t go within, you go without.” Neale Donald WalshDHARANADharana is the initial step of the seventh limb. We live in a busy world that is constantly pulling ourattention in many different directions. We have been conditioned to constantly be on the lookout for the next “shiny object.” Through the practiceof dharana, we train the mind to focus on a single point, or object, for a prolonged period of time.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-256.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-258.md)
