---
title: Sanskrit
slug: sanskrit
group: History and Philosophy
order: 42
summary: >-
  is the classical language of India. Itsmodern form is Hindi and is one of the
  22 official languages of India. Sanskrit is one of the earliest members of the
  Indo-European language …
tags: []
---
# Sanskrit

is the classical language of India. Itsmodern form is Hindi and is one of the 22 official languages of India. Sanskrit is one of the earliest members of the Indo-European language family: Vedic Sanskrit, the pre-Classical form of thelanguage is a foundational language of English, French, Latin and Germanic languages. The adjective is Samskrta, coming from Samskar, sam meaning “together” and (s)kar – “do, make..” This is translated as put together, well or completely formed, refined or highly elaborated. There are 54 vowels and consonants, each with a masculine and feminine part, totaling 1
8. Example: deva = masculine, devi = feminine SAMSKRTA The cultured language, refined, consecrated andsanctified—has by definition always been a sacred and sophisticated language used for religious and learned discourse. It’s used for ceremonial rituals, hymns and mantras in India. PRAKRTA In contrast to Samskrta, this was the language spoken by the people DEVA-BHASA The “divine language” or the language of the demi gods. DEVANAGARI The almost exclusive use of script to publish Sanskrit texts. The Om symbol is written in Deva script making it sacred text. PRONUNCIATION TIPS
1. Emphasis goes on the first “A” in asana, at the end of most posture names.
2. Double consonants create a “stop,” or make the consonant, pause, then let it explode.
3. Aspirate an “H” when it is written. Sanskrit 4.“T” and “D” are placed at the gums behind the upper teeth, vs English, where our consonants are pronounced on the front of our teeth.
5. Since there is a dot over the final vowel in Samasthiti, you add a “hi” to the end so it ispronounced Samasthitihi. This takes the word from being a name of a posture to being aprayer, rather than just being “equal on all sides pose” as it directly translates, it’s the yogi’sprayer to keep us equal no matter what lifebrings, ups or downs, highs or lows, Downdogs or Crows, we are steady and joyful in all postures. WHY SANSKRIT IS USED IN CLASS It is a universal language for all yoga teachers that honors the teachers and the lineage thatcame before us. It honors the cultural legacies that produced the yoga practice, and something larger than the individual self. It is a consistent reference to the root of a technique. It is part of attempting to access higher levels of consciousness. Sanskritadds an energetic component to our students and ourselves. It can clear energy or balance the group, so everyone is on the same frequency. Each language has a vibratory structure intended for specific purposes. English has evolved into a conceptual language for communication whereas Sanskrit remains a language of vibrations andsound. Sanskrit creates entrainment, when twointeracting, oscillating bodies lock into phase, so that they vibrate in harmony due to the mutualinfluence they have on one another. In music, an in-tune instrument pulls another in tune. Yourfrequency will naturally ebb and flow and teachers and students will have a mutual influence on each other. Om brings balance to a class. Remember, sound is powerful. Take intoconsideration music, assisting and your body positioning in class.
- --

6 .17 Sanskrit can be a challenge as you begin to teach yoga asana. Understanding the basic meaning of words that make up the asanas can help you retain the pronunciation of this powerful language. It can also help you more clearly convey the meaning ofthe poses and align the resonance of your words to deliver potent vibration as you speak. Adhomukha – downward face Anga – Limb or part of the body Anjana – Mother of Hanuman, the monkey deity Ardha – Half Asana – Seat, posture; the third stage of yoga Ashta – Eight Ashtanga – the Eight Limbs of Yoga Baddha – Bound, caught, restrained, firm Baka – a crane Bandha – bondage or lock Bhuja – the arm or shoulder Bhujanga – a serpent or snake Chandra – the moon Chatur – the number four Danda – a staff Dhanu – a bow Dwi – two, both Eka – one, singular, only Garuda – an eagle Hala – a plough Hasta – the hand Janu – the knee Jathara – the stomach or abdomen Kapota – a dove or pigeon Karna – the ear Kona – an angle Kurma – a tortoise Mala – a garland or wreath Mandala – a circle Matsya – a fish Mayura – a peacock Mudra – a seal, sealing posture Mula – the root, base Namaskar – a salutation. an Indian greeting consisting of a bow Nataraja – A name of Shiva, lord of the dancers. Pada – the foot or leg Padangustha – the big toe Padma – a lotus Parivartana – turning around, revolving Parivrtta – turned around, revolved Parsva – the side, lateral Paschima – West; the back side of the body Paschimottana – according to Iyengar “intensestretch of the backside of the body from the nape to the heels”Prana – life force, vitality
