---
title: 'J'
slug: 'j'
group: 'Training'
order: 99
summary: 'KDELTOIDS F-Three muscles: posterior, lateral and anterior-Together the three muscles abduct the shoulder joint-Anterior fibers: shoulder flexion and horizontal adduction-Posterior'
tags: []
---

KDELTOIDS F-Three muscles: posterior, lateral and anterior-Together the three muscles abduct the shoulder joint-Anterior fibers: shoulder flexion and horizontal adduction-Posterior fibers: shoulder extension and horizontal abductionROTATOR CUFF G-Shallow ball and socket joint; these four muscles help to stabilize, they don’t offer “great” mobility-Supraspinatus: draws the head of the humerus to the midline,against the glenoid fossa and first bit of shoulder abduction before the deltoids kick in-Infraspinatus: draws the head of the humerus to the midline, against the glenoid fossa and external rotation-Teres minor: draws the head of the humerus to the midline, against the glenoid fossa and external rotation-Subscapularus: draws the head of the humerus to the midline, against the glenoid fossa and Internal rotationCHEST H-Two pectoral muscles: Major and minor (big and small)-Pulls the arm towards the midline-Upper clavicular fibers flex the shoulder joint-Sternal fibers draw the arm toward the midline: horizontal adductionBICEPS J-2 Biceps run down the anterior (front) side of the humerus (upper arm bone)-Primary function is to bend the elbow (elbow flexion)-Secondary function is supination of the forearm-turning the hand from a palms-down position to a palms-up positionTRICEPS K-Triceps consist of three “heads”-Main function of the triceps is to extend (straighten) the elbow-Being a two joint muscle, secondary function is to extend the shoulder

---

# Page 235

5.18 © Yoga Flow YOGA TRANSVERSE ABDOMINUS B-Transverse Abs are the most over-looked abdominal muscle-Deepest of your ab muscles-Belt, girdle, corset of torso-Critical muscle to help build core strength-By strengthening and toning this muscle you help strengthen your core and back, minimizing backinjury and pain-Engaging the Transverse Abs feels like bracing your body as if someone was going to try and tip you over (squeeze in with yourmuscles rather than out)-Always include abdominal exercises that work this muscle for example, boat posePSOAS C-Rope like muscle that connects the lumbar spine (low back) to the anterior (front) of the femur (thigh bone)-Connects front body to back body and lower body to upper body-Primarily serves as a hip flexor muscle, drawing the thigh bone up toward the lower abdomen-Flexes and externally rotates the leg at the hip (also flexes the trunk, tilts the pelvis forward to straighten and support the spine)abdominal muscles
ACBAbdominal muscles extend from different placeson the ribs to various places on the pelvis and their primary purpose is to provide movement and tosupport your trunk. Six different muscles make up the front body abdominal wall.RECTUS ABDOMINUS A-Commonly referred to as the “six-pack”-Separated and supported by fascial pockets-Long flat muscle running down midline of the core-One long muscle covering what people commonly refer to as the lower abs and upper abs.-Main purpose and function when shortened in a contraction is to pull the lower ribs towards the pelvis as in crunchesOBLIQUES-Four oblique muscles: 2 external, 2 internal-Located on each side of the body and wraps around like a basket weave of muscle fibers-Main function is for twisting and side bending the body at your torso-Internal and external oblique muscles worktogether but in opposite ways. When twisting your body to the right you use and contractthe right internal oblique muscle and the left external oblique muscles-Abdominal exercises that twist or bend at the side will work your oblique muscles like bicycle crunches, side bends

---

# Page 236

5.19 Reading Different BodiesAs human beings our bodies are similar in many ways. Similar bones, joints and soft tissuestructures carry us through the postures of life. There are also differences inherent in each body and understanding these differences is important to being a good yoga teacher.When learning to instruct a group of people in class, focus on the foundations of alignment tokeep your students safe. Look for LOOK FOR and choose cues based on what you see in yourstudent’s body. Since each body is different, poses will naturally look and feel different for everyone.It is important to understand some of the reasons why we see so much variety in postures fromstudent to student. Variances in the body’s genetic structure play a role including bone shape, bodyproportion, strength and length in soft tissueand muscle and fat tissue mass. Present or past injuries, lifestyle, emotional state and bodyawareness are also factors. Understanding some of these variances will give you confidence in your cues as well as precision in the instruction you are able to offer your students.What makes our pose look different? Bone shapeBody proportionStrength and length in soft tissue (tension vs. compression)Muscle and adipose tissueGeneticsPast injuriesLifestyleIntention and emotional stateInternal body awarenessSTRENGTH and FLEXIBILITYIn our yoga students we have those naturally dominant in collagen fibers, those dominant in elastin fibers, those equally balanced in both,and every combination in between. As teachersit is our job to serve both the strong and flexible students and help them discover balance in allparts of themselves. By understanding geneticpre-dispositions we can treat each student as an individual and help them practice self-acceptance regardless of what their poses look like.Some people are naturally more flexible than others thanks to connective tissue genetics.Our muscles, fascia, ligaments and tendonscarry within them a genetic make-up that pre-determines the density of our soft tissue and the ease with which it naturally stretches. The genetic make-up is important to understand so we canteach our students to appreciate their individual bodies and not compare themselves to otheryogis in the class. Of course, lifestyle habits will have much to do with a student’s flexibility when they first step onto a yoga mat, but their natural genetic disposition will also always be present.Collagen and ElastinCollagen is made up of protein. It is firm, strong and resistant to stretching. A student with more collagen fibers in their connective tissue willnaturally be stronger and less flexible. Elastinis made of up fibers that are thin, stretchy and flexible like elastic. A person with more elastin in their connective tissue will be more naturally flexible.Ground SubstanceThe ground substance is the jelly like substancethat the collagen and elastin live in. When the body is cold, this ground substance firms and becomesless supple, restricting movement in the connective tissue. When you warm the body up, the ground© Yoga Flow YOGA

---

# Page 237

5.20 © Yoga Flow YOGA substance becomes more gel-like and allows the body to move with ease. It is important to always give our students a proper warm up so we arealways working with the supplest soft tissue.TENSION and COMPRESSIONTension is when soft tissue is not elastic enough to stretch to the full range of motion. Tensionis tightness in a muscle or connective tissuethat restricts movement. Overtime, with slow and steady stretching, you will see a change in elasticity and an increase in range of motion.Compression is when solid matter makes contact with another piece of solid matter and this contact stops the range of motion. Compression is when a bone hits another bone and cannot pass throughit, thus stopping the body at that position. Wealso experience compression of soft tissue, when muscle or fat gets squeezed between two bones. This can also restrict the movements of the body.When practicing yoga asana, a studentexperiences both tension and compression in their body. By exploring some of these common sites of compression we can learn much about reading and understanding our students’ bodies from head to toe. This knowledge will allow you to cue to what you see in the room and connect with studentsafter class by answering questions about their practice.Elbow CompressionEXTENSION: ulna to humerusPart of the ulna forms a hook shaped bone that fits into the notch of the humerus. The ulna hook pivots around the humerus until it bangs into the base of humerus socket. That is compression Wesee this in hypo/hyperextension of the elbow in any posePRONATION: radius to ulnaWhen rotating the palm from face up to facedown, the radius rotates around the ulna. The ulna doesn’t move, the radius rotates around the ulna to pronate the palm. Compression occurs when the radius hits the ulna, compressing the soft tissue in between. How far you can pronate is dictated by
ground substanceelastincollagen

---

# Page 238

5.21 the shape of your bones and the mass of the softtissue in between. We see this when you place your palms flat on the mat like in Downward FacingDog.Shoulder CompressionFLEXION: humerus to acromionThe humerus can reach above your head only as far back as the acromion process, where yourcollar bone attached to the top of your shoulder blade. When the humerus hits the boney place where the collar bone and shoulder blade meet, it experiences compression. The only way toexperience more shoulder flexion is to abduct the arms and go around the acromion process, asseen when widening the arms more than shoulder distance. We see this in Tadasana.Spinal CompressionLATERAL FLEXION: ribcage on the iliac crest of the pelvisThe natural height of the lumbar spine willdetermine the amount of space between your bottom rib and the top of your pelvis. Whenside bending, a shorter lumbar spine will yield compression of the ribs to the pelvis, limiting further movement. If you are not experiencingcompression, where will you feel the stretch? How else will spine length affect our students’ poses?Spine length vs. femur length in twisting poses like in Prayer Twist.Hip CompressionIn the hips, compression is rarely strict bonedirectly on bone but often soft tissue compression.ROTATION: femur on hip socketMany of us are predisposed to be more naturalinternal rotators or external rotators based on the shape and position of our hip socket. When your femur bone makes contact with the edge of yourhip socket, that is compression. We see external rotation in Baddha Konasana and internal rotation in back leg of Warrior 1 or both legs in Fixed Firm Pose.FLEXION, ABDUCTION, ADDUCTION: femur on pelvis The femur bone compresses against the bones of the pelvis, often with soft tissue in between.Because the hip is a ball and socket joint, this can happen in more than one plane of motion. Wesee flexion in Forward Fold and Half-Pigeon. If you are not experiencing compression, where will you feel the stretch? We see abduction in Horse and Warrior two. If you are not experiencingcompression, where will you feel the stretch?We see adduction in Supine Twist. If you are not experiencing compression, where will you feel the stretch? How does the hip affect knee safety inthese poses?Ankle CompressionDORSIFLEXION: front ankle bones on front of tibiaWe see this in Downward Facing Dog. If you are not experiencing compression, where will you feel the stretch?PLANTARFLEXION: heel bone onto the back of tibia We see this in Child’s Pose and Upward Facing Dog. If you are not experiencing compression, where will you feel the stretch?

---

# Page 239

5.22 © Yoga Flow YOGA Nervous SystemSENSORY DIVISIONSensory receptors are divided into three classes based either on their location in the body or the location of the stimuli to which they respond, exteroceptors, that take in external stimuli,interoceptors; that take in internal stimuli, and proprioceptors, that help us monitor where our body is in space.Proprioceptors are located in the musculoskeletal organs such as skeletal muscles, tendons, jointsand ligaments. Proprioceptors monitor the degree of stretch within each of these structures andsend input on the body movements to the CNS. Proprioception is the body’s awareness of where it is in space and the movement of its limbs. The nervous system is constantly communicatingan awareness of the length and tension of each muscle and the location of the limbs. This is whybalance poses are so challenging when the eyes are closed. When not relying on the eyes, the nervoussystem must locate the body’s center of gravity and figure out where it is in space.The body can create holding patterns to protect muscles from fatigue. Some muscles are stuckin shortened positions because of habitual,imbalanced postures. For example, some people’s shoulders are stuck up toward their ears without their knowledge. If you tried holding your shoulder up towards your ear all day, you would find thatit’s much harder to consciously engage a muscle. Some muscles disengage, making others engage in their place. These improper patterns can oftenbe reset with awareness and repetition of correct movements through yoga. Showing a muscle its full range of motion is enough to reset it to itsproper length.The nervous system is the master control and communication system of the body - everythought, action, instinct and emotion reflects its activity. The nervous system is made up of fiber bundles that weave throughout the body, muchlike fascia. The nervous systems cells communicate through rapid and specific electrical signalssent through these fibers, which produce almost immediate responses. By stretching and movingthe nerve fibers while allowing the body and mind to experience the full journey of a yoga class, we can help our students fight disease, stress andincrease overall feelings of well-being.FUNCTIONS-Uses millions of sensory receptors to monitor changes occurring both inside and outside of the body-Processes and interprets the sensory input to make decisions about what should be done at each moment-Dictates a response by activating the effector organs (muscles or glands)TYPES OF NERVE CELLSThe Central Nervous System (CNS) is theintegrating and command center of the nervous system. Consisting of the brain and the spinal cord, the CNS receives and interprets incoming sensory signals and dictates motor responsesbased on past experiences, reflexes and current conditions.The Peripheral Nervous System (PNS) consists mainly of nerves extending out from the brain and spinal cord to the rest of the body. These communication channels link all regions of the body to the CNS.

---

# Page 240

5.23 MOTOR DIVISIONThe motor division of the nervous system reacts to the stimuli brought in from the sensory division. It is divided into two systems. The Somatic Nervous System oversees the parts of our bodies we canvoluntarily control. For example; if you’re sitting next to a fire and it feels too warm for comfort, you voluntarily activate your leg muscles to moveyour body further from the flames. The Autonomic Nervous System responds to stimuli withoutvoluntary or conscious effort, such as the release of stress hormones if you feel yourself overheating in an uncomfortable way.The autonomic nervous system has twobranches; sympathetic and parasympathetic. Thesympathetic nervous system up-regulates our body functions. These are the feelings of fight, flightand fright that occur when a stressful situation is sensed. Our sympathetic nervous system is often overworked in our yoga students due to stresses of daily life in the modern world.The parasympathetic nervous system down-regulates our body functions. This is the relaxation response that allows us to rest, restore and repair.The practice of yoga gives the para-sympathetic nervous system a chance to do its thing, topractice relaxation.ACTIVITYExplore your sensory receptors. Close your eyes and hold your arms out infront of you. Do you know where your hands are? Do you know where your feet are? Could you stand up without swaying? Could you stand on one leg? Why is this important?When teaching, ask your studentsto bring their shoulders all the way to their ears and hold, then slowly all the way down. Repeat severaltimes. By bringing a muscle to each end point, it is better able to find the proper resting length.

---

# Page 241

BreathANATOMY OF BREATHDiaphragm ADome shaped muscle that divides ribs fromabdomen horizontally through the center of the body. The diaphragm pulls down to create more space in the lung cavity during an inhalation.Intercostal MusclesThese are located in the thorax or ribcage. Pull the ribs further apart for more air during an inhalation and squeeze the ribs together to push air out onforced exhalation.Oblique MusclesContracts during forced exhalation (cough, sneeze, laugh).Serratus Posterior BHelps pull ribs out of the way to create more space during an inhalation.Scalenes and Sternocleidomastoid (SCM)Pull the top ribs out of the way for upper chest breathing.EXERCISE AND GUIDED BREATHBreath takes place in three parts of the body. Because of the size and volume capacity of our lungs, a full breath should involve movement inall three areas and all three dimensions (front to back, side to side, top to bottom).-Diaphragm, stomach, and lower back body (front to back)-Clavicle (up and down)-Chest and ribs (side to side and all directions)Inhalation-Diaphragm moves downward, increasing lung volume-Intercostals muscles move the ribs apart from each other-Scalene and SCM move the top ribsExhalation-Diaphragm relaxes and returns upward expelling air out-The elasticity of the lung tissue aids in expelling air-The ribs relax and reduce the volume, thus air is forced outForced Exhalation-The intercostals pull the ribs closer togetherforcing air out (cough and feel the muscles work)-The abdominals assist in forcing air out of the lungs
