---
title: 'Anatomy5'
slug: 'anatomy5'
group: 'Training'
order: 85
summary: 'Anatomy5 --- # Page 219 5.2 © Yoga Flow YOGA THE PHYSICAL BODYDynamic activities like yoga increase bloodflow through the body, which heats and loosens connective tissue. Heat enha'
tags: []
---

Anatomy5

---

# Page 219

5.2 © Yoga Flow YOGA THE PHYSICAL BODYDynamic activities like yoga increase bloodflow through the body, which heats and loosens connective tissue. Heat enhances the tissue’sability to soften and relax so it is beneficial to stretch after the muscles have been warmedup. Due to the nature and characteristics of the connective tissue, a yoga practice can target onearea of the body, while positively affecting another area.With the complementary muscular length andstrength benefits of yoga, a balanced yoga practice can improve posture and structural alignment bybalancing the muscular and soft-tissue tension pulling on opposite sides of a joint. Yoga helps tobuild multi-joint coordination, and with increasedpull at muscle-tendon-bone attachment sites, yoga can increase a person’s bone density.ALIGNMENTA basic knowledge of bone and muscle alignment, as well as how to stack the joints, is essential for injury prevention in yoga. A simple understanding of bone/muscle function and joint placementteaches efficiency in yoga and effortlessness of movement. By using proper alignment techniques to create efficiency of movement, yoga has many wonderful physiological effects on the body.Improper alignment causes undue stress on the body. Distortion of the joints can result in joint degeneration, and excessive load to supportingstructures (tendons, ligaments, cartilage, menisci). With repeated improper alignment and isolated or imbalanced excessive loading patterns, ligaments can overstretch, joint capsules can loosen andcartilage may wear out over time.Forward-head posture is currently one of the mostcommon abnormal postures in our society and occurs when a person’s head position is shifted forward relative toAnatomy is more than just the sum of all of the parts and systems of the body. While the body is perfect, the science of anatomy is imperfect.It lacks depth and dynamic relationship between the systems of the body and the individuality of each of us. The information provided here is abrief introduction to the physical make-up of the body. Understanding the functional anatomy,or relationship of how the body moves through yoga asana helps us understand the body moreintimately and opens our minds to the magnificent interplay of our physical beings.A basic knowledge and functional understanding of anatomical structures allows an instructor tosafely guide students in and out of yoga postures, while respecting natural skeletal joint structure, function, range of motion and muscle lengths;honoring structural integrity and facilitating injury prevention.Translated, vinyasa literally means “to place in a special way” or “to move with intention.”Together, a functional understanding of anatomy and appreciation for the physical intention of the yoga posture provides an instructor the abilityto skillfully personalize or modify a posture for a student with a physical limitation or injury, while staying aligned with the overall physical intention of the pose. This knowledgeable andmindful instructor facilitates a safe and successful yoga experience for the student. In addition,understanding the skeletal system’s structuralintegrity, the physical intention of the poses and exercises and the behavior of the anatomicalstructures involved in achieving a given pose or exercise, allows a teacher to choose verbal cuesthat strengthen a student’s awareness, alignment and connection to the asana. Understandinganatomy is paramount to educated body-reading and cueing as a teacher.Anatomy In Yoga

---

# Page 220

5 .3 PLANES OF MOTIONAll basic movements of the body take place inthese three planes of movement and the starting point is the neutral anatomical position.Sagittal PlaneVertical plane that divides the body into left and right, creates forward and backward movement
Frontal PlaneVertical plane that divides the body into front and back, creates side to side movement
Transverse PlaneDivides the body into top and bottom halves, often a twisting movement
their cervical spine. Ideal alignment of the head and neck positions the head stacked directly over the cervical bones of the neck. As the head shifts forward, the neck extensor muscles must work harder to keep the head and visionupright. Over time, the increased chronic stress of those muscles can lead to neck and back pain, TMJ, headaches and eventually disc degeneration, arthritis and decreased cervical spine joint movement.EFFICIENCY OF MOVEMENTEfficiency of movement occurs when using theleast amount of physical, metabolic, and mental effort (energy) with each movement. Movements performed with increased mechanical efficiency can become seemingly effortless. In any physicalactivity, yoga included, muscle coordination is a key factor for increased movement efficiency.Movement efficiency decreases with unnecessary increased muscle action inconsistent with thedirection of motion (decreased movementcoordination). For example, swinging your arms side-to-side while running forward increasesmuscle action but is not necessary to increase your desired forward motion; therefore, decreasingefficiency of the forward movement. Whereas, minimizing the side-to-side movement andcoordinating movement and muscle action in the forward direction would serve to increasemovement efficiency. Moving inefficiently uses more energy and expands more effort, likelydecreasing the amount of time available toparticipate in the activity and contributing to a person’s decreased overall sense of success.In yoga postures, it is important to understand the overall intention of the pose (which area should be working vs. relaxed), and understand overall muscle action to facilitate maximum efficiency, balancedenergy expenditure, increased participation duration, and enhanced sense of success.

---

# Page 221

5 .4 © Yoga Flow YOGA ACTIVITYAll yoga exercises branch from the fundamental principles of NeutralAnatomical Position. Understanding neutral is how we learn to read for alignment and misalignment in our students. To find your own, stand up straight, extend your arms at your sides, face your palms forward.Establish a Firm Base in Your Feet-Press through all four corners of your feet-Evenly distribute your body weight-Spread all ten toes. Relax your toes to the floor without gripping-Lift up through the arches of your feet to engage your legsStack Your Joints for Maximum Support-Track your knees in line with your big and middle toes-Watch for knocked knees or bow legged knees-Watch for Knees straight vs. lockedCreate Core Stability-Engage the muscles of your pelvic floor-Draw your front ribs down to neutral-Engage your abdominal muscles in and upRelax Your Shoulders Back and Down-Retract and depress your shoulder blades back and down-Maintain your neutral ribcage positionAlign Your Spine-Maintain your head and neck movements along with the rest of your spine-Maintain length in the back of your neck

---

# Page 222

5 .5 Flexion/FlexMovement that decreases the angle of a joint,bends a joint or brings the bones closer together. When you curl your entire body into a tiny ball,including fingers, wrists and toes, you are flexing every joint in your body.Extension/ExtendMovement that straightens or opens a joint.Pretend you were jumping out of a plane with your arms and legs forced out behind you by the wind - you are extending every joint in your body.Abduction/AbductMoves the extremities or arms and legs away from the midline of the body. In Warrior two, you abduct your arms. ABDucted by aliens = movement awayAdduction/AdductMoves the extremities towards the midline of the body. In Eagle, you adduct your arms before you cross them. ADD togetherRotation/RotateRotary movement around an axis of a bone. if the axis had a magic marker attached, it would draw a dotCircumduction/CircumductCircular movement, combining flexion, extension, adduction and abduction not to be confused with rotation. if the body part had a magic markerattached, it would draw a circleHyperextension/HyperextendExtending the joint beyond the neutral anatomical position.Inversion/InvertMoving the sole of the foot toward the midline of the body - a combination of adduction and supination of the foot and ankle.Eversion/EvertMoving the sole of the foot away from the midline of the body - a combination of abduction andpronation of the foot and ankle. when you have an “eversion” to something, you want it AWAY from youElevation/ElevateLift up towards the head as in lifting your shoulders towards your ears.Depression/DepressMove downward towards the feet as in moving your shoulders away from your ears.Protraction/ProtractMove away from midline of the body. Roll the shoulders forward without elevating.Retraction/RetractMove towards the midline of the body. Pull theshoulder blades back without moving them down.Supination/SupinateExternal rotation resulting in appendage facingupward as in palms face up. you carry SOUP with palms face upPronation/PronateInternal rotation resulting in appendage facingdownward as in palms face down. the opposite of how you carry soupDorsiflexion/DorsiflexMoving the top of the foot toward the shin,commonly referred to as flexing. a flexed foot is the shape of a DORSal fin on a dolphinPlantarflexion/PlantarflexMoving the top of the foot away from the shin,commonly referred to as pointing. foot point starts with a “P”anatomy glossary

---

# Page 223

5 .6 © Yoga Flow YOGA BonesIn Yoga, we use x-ray body reading skills to see if our students are in safe alignment. Look underthe muscles and soft tissue and see the bones underneath.BONES-Make up the skeleton and support and protect the internal organs-Living tissue that form the body’s structural framework-Bone is a special form of connective tissue; the hardest of all connective tissue-Provides calcium and minerals storage important for muscle contraction-Bones grow and strengthen with resistance and gravitational pressure-Lack of healthy stress weakens the bones-Weight bearing exercises aid in preventingosteoporosis, a disease in which bones become fragile and become more likely to break-Resistance training and muscle strength gained from activities like yoga stimulates bone growth and can contribute to increased bone densityAXIAL SKELETON-Skull, sternum, ribs, spine-Yoga Application: Stabilize the axial skeleton while moving the arms and legs around during many yoga postures and transitions.-Create core strength by stabilizing themovement of the arms and legs with the center of the body and squeeze towards the midline.APPENDICULAR SKELETON-Shoulder girdle, pelvic girdle, upper and lower extremities-Yoga Application: We move the major joints of the appendicular skeleton during many yogaposes.Phalanges # Talus # Metatarsals # Tibia # Fibula # Patella # Femur # Ilium # Sacrum # Lumbar Vertebra # Thoracic Vertebra # Cervical Vertebra # Skull # Ribs # Sternum # Clavicle # Scapula # Humerus # Radius # Ulna # Carpals # Metacarpals # Phalanges 22, Talus 20, Metatarsals 21, Tibia 18, Fibula 19, Patella 17,Femur 16, Ilium 14, Sacrum 15, Lumbar Vertebra 9, Thoracic Vertebra8, Cervical Vertebra 2, Skull 1, Ribs 7, Sternum 6, Clavicle 3, Scapula5, Humerus 4, Radius 10, Ulna 11, Carpals 12, Metacarpals 13

---
