---
title: Reading Different Bodies
slug: reading-different-bodies
group: Anatomy
order: 36
summary: >-
  As human beings our bodies are similar in many ways. Similar bones, joints and
  soft tissuestructures carry us through the postures of life. There are also
  differences inherent in e…
tags: []
---
# Reading Different Bodies

As human beings our bodies are similar in many ways. Similar bones, joints and soft tissuestructures carry us through the postures of life. There are also differences inherent in each body and understanding these differences is important to being a good yoga teacher. When learning to instruct a group of people in class, focus on the foundations of alignment tokeep your students safe. Look for LOOK FOR and choose cues based on what you see in yourstudent’s body. Since each body is different, poses will naturally look and feel different for everyone. It is important to understand some of the reasons why we see so much variety in postures fromstudent to student. Variances in the body’s genetic structure play a role including bone shape, bodyproportion, strength and length in soft tissueand muscle and fat tissue mass. Present or past injuries, lifestyle, emotional state and bodyawareness are also factors. Understanding some of these variances will give you confidence in your cues as well as precision in the instruction you are able to offer your students. What makes our pose look different? Bone shapeBody proportionStrength and length in soft tissue (tension vs. compression)Muscle and adipose tissueGeneticsPast injuriesLifestyleIntention and emotional stateInternal body awarenessSTRENGTH and FLEXIBILITY In our yoga students we have those naturally dominant in collagen fibers, those dominant in elastin fibers, those equally balanced in both, and every combination in between. As teachersit is our job to serve both the strong and flexible students and help them discover balance in allparts of themselves. By understanding geneticpre-dispositions we can treat each student as an individual and help them practice self-acceptance regardless of what their poses look like. Some people are naturally more flexible than others thanks to connective tissue genetics. Our muscles, fascia, ligaments and tendonscarry within them a genetic make-up that pre-determines the density of our soft tissue and the ease with which it naturally stretches. The genetic make-up is important to understand so we canteach our students to appreciate their individual bodies and not compare themselves to otheryogis in the class. Of course, lifestyle habits will have much to do with a student’s flexibility when they first step onto a yoga mat, but their natural genetic disposition will also always be present. Collagen and ElastinCollagen is made up of protein. It is firm, strong and resistant to stretching. A student with more collagen fibers in their connective tissue willnaturally be stronger and less flexible. Elastinis made of up fibers that are thin, stretchy and flexible like elastic. A person with more elastin in their connective tissue will be more naturally flexible. Ground SubstanceThe ground substance is the jelly like substancethat the collagen and elastin live in. When the body is cold, this ground substance firms and becomesless supple, restricting movement in the connective tissue. When you warm the body up, the ground© Yoga Flow YOGA
- --
5. 20 © Yoga Flow YOGA substance becomes more gel-like and allows the body to move with ease. It is important to always give our students a proper warm up so we arealways working with the supplest soft tissue. TENSION and COMPRESSION Tension is when soft tissue is not elastic enough to stretch to the full range of motion. Tensionis tightness in a muscle or connective tissuethat restricts movement. Overtime, with slow and steady stretching, you will see a change in elasticity and an increase in range of motion. Compression is when solid matter makes contact with another piece of solid matter and this contact stops the range of motion. Compression is when a bone hits another bone and cannot pass throughit, thus stopping the body at that position. Wealso experience compression of soft tissue, when muscle or fat gets squeezed between two bones. This can also restrict the movements of the body. When practicing yoga asana, a studentexperiences both tension and compression in their body. By exploring some of these common sites of compression we can learn much about reading and understanding our students’ bodies from head to toe. This knowledge will allow you to cue to what you see in the room and connect with studentsafter class by answering questions about their practice. Elbow CompressionEXTENSION: ulna to humerusPart of the ulna forms a hook shaped bone that fits into the notch of the humerus. The ulna hook pivots around the humerus until it bangs into the base of humerus socket. That is compression Wesee this in hypo/hyperextension of the elbow in any posePRONATION: radius to ulnaWhen rotating the palm from face up to facedown, the radius rotates around the ulna. The ulna doesn’t move, the radius rotates around the ulna to pronate the palm. Compression occurs when the radius hits the ulna, compressing the soft tissue in between. How far you can pronate is dictated by
ground substanceelastincollagen
- --
5. 21 the shape of your bones and the mass of the softtissue in between. We see this when you place your palms flat on the mat like in Downward FacingDog. Shoulder CompressionFLEXION: humerus to acromionThe humerus can reach above your head only as far back as the acromion process, where yourcollar bone attached to the top of your shoulder blade. When the humerus hits the boney place where the collar bone and shoulder blade meet, it experiences compression. The only way toexperience more shoulder flexion is to abduct the arms and go around the acromion process, asseen when widening the arms more than shoulder distance. We see this in Tadasana. Spinal CompressionLATERAL FLEXION: ribcage on the iliac crest of the pelvisThe natural height of the lumbar spine willdetermine the amount of space between your bottom rib and the top of your pelvis. Whenside bending, a shorter lumbar spine will yield compression of the ribs to the pelvis, limiting further movement. If you are not experiencingcompression, where will you feel the stretch? How else will spine length affect our students’ poses? Spine length vs. femur length in twisting poses like in Prayer Twist. Hip CompressionIn the hips, compression is rarely strict bonedirectly on bone but often soft tissue compression. ROTATION: femur on hip socketMany of us are predisposed to be more naturalinternal rotators or external rotators based on the shape and position of our hip socket. When your femur bone makes contact with the edge of yourhip socket, that is compression. We see external rotation in Baddha Konasana and internal rotation in back leg of Warrior 1 or both legs in Fixed Firm Pose. FLEXION, ABDUCTION, ADDUCTION: femur on pelvis The femur bone compresses against the bones of the pelvis, often with soft tissue in between. Because the hip is a ball and socket joint, this can happen in more than one plane of motion. Wesee flexion in Forward Fold and Half-Pigeon. If you are not experiencing compression, where will you feel the stretch? We see abduction in Horse and Warrior two. If you are not experiencingcompression, where will you feel the stretch? We see adduction in Supine Twist. If you are not experiencing compression, where will you feel the stretch? How does the hip affect knee safety inthese poses? Ankle CompressionDORSIFLEXION: front ankle bones on front of tibiaWe see this in Downward Facing Dog. If you are not experiencing compression, where will you feel the stretch? PLANTARFLEXION: heel bone onto the back of tibia We see this in Child’s Pose and Upward Facing Dog. If you are not experiencing compression, where will you feel the stretch?
- --
5. 22 © Yoga Flow YOGA
