---
title: 'Teacher Toolkit2'
slug: 'teacher-toolkit2'
group: 'Training'
order: 6
summary: 'Teacher Toolkit2 --- # Page 23 2.2 © Yoga Flow YOGA Thesearetheessentialcomponentsof asolidand wellbalancedyogaclass.You’llwanttokeepthese inmindevery timeyouteach.1 PHYSICAL YOGA '
tags: []
---

Teacher Toolkit2

---

# Page 23

2.2 © Yoga Flow YOGA Thesearetheessentialcomponentsof asolidand wellbalancedyogaclass.You’llwanttokeepthese inmindevery timeyouteach.1 PHYSICAL YOGA POSTURES (ASANA)Asana is firmness of body, steadiness of mind and benevolence of spirit. The intention is to practice yoga postures to develop strength, stillness andendurance in the physical body while cultivating intelligence in the mind, kindness in our actionsand generosity in spirit. In this way, yoga postures strengthen the body, mind and spirit.2BREATH(PRANA)Rhythmic control of the breath or pranayama is practiced at Yoga Flow Yoga. The breath facilitates being present in the moment; it builds heat and energy in the bodyand it links the postures.3 FLOW (VINYASA)Vinyasa is a steady dynamic flow of connected yoga postures linked with the breath. Vinyasa is derived from the Sanskrit term nyasa, which means “to place,” and the prefix vi, “in a special way,” as in the linking of one asana to the next. In yoga asana (postures), the most common understanding of Vinyasa is a flowing sequence of specific asanas coordinated with the movements of the breath.4 HEAT (TAPAS)Tapas or warms the muscles allowing a safe practice at a deeper level. In Yoga Flow Yoga, accelerated detoxification occurs throughsweating. Yoga Class Essentials5 GAZE (DRISHTI) AND FOCUS (DHARANA)Drishti is a point of focus held while practicing a yoga posture. The use of drishtiallowsthe mind to focus and move into a deeperstate of concentration or dharana and a profound state of attention and focus.6 ALIGNMENT AND SAFETYKeep alignment and safety in mind as you lead class. Be precise and concise with your cues and teach to the experience level of your students.7ABDOMINALLOCK(UDDIYANABANDHA)Uddiyanabandha is an energetic lock that keeps life energy at the center of the body. It creates a solid foundation, stability, balance and alignmentin postures. Physically, the diaphragm lifts into the chest and the abdominal organs pull toward thespine.8ESTABLISHRHYTHMSetthepaceandflowearlyintheclass.Bepredictable–allowyourstudentstorelyonrhythmicbreathandposecues.Maintaincontinuityandconsistency;keepasteadyrhythm,notjustinoneclass,butthroughoutallclasses.9 SET STUDENTS UP FOR SUCCESSAlways plan to make the student successful.Sequence the class in a way that will allow them to achieve new heights and succeed in theirpractice and their lives. Approach all aspects ofyour teaching (sequencing, adjusting, cuing, music) from the perspective of setting your students up for success.10 HAVE FUNRespect the yogapractice and enjoy the experience equally. Promotelightness in the way you teach and allow your authentic teacher within to come through.

---

# Page 24

Environment and HeatSET SEQUENCE The Power Vinyasa (C1) sequence is set to create consistency and opportunities to gauge your progress. Layers are a way to teach to all levels. A set sequence also trains the body to practice in a disciplined way. It is also the basis for the C2 sequence at Yoga Flow Yoga that is instructor-inspired and adds heat. HEATPeak performance occurs when the body isfully warm.In Heated C1 and C2 the heat also helps to warm up the body to be ready for deep compressions and extensions from early on in class. Heat guidelines in C1-80-No added humidityHeat guidelines in C2-95F-40% humidityBe mindful of your studio space, the climate in which you teach,the previous state of the room, and class size.MAT PLACEMENTPlace the teacher mat in the front and center of the yoga room.STUDIO SPACEThe yoga room should be neat and clean, freeof debris and unpleasant smells. Cultivate an awareness of studio space and clean up before and after class to create a safe, consistent, and positive experience for students.2.3© Yoga Flow YOGA why heat and humidityYoga Flow Yoga uses heat and humidity to create an environment during a typical class. Heated yoga can impact the body in a number ofways including improved range of motion, flexibility, rate of perceived exertion, circulation and breathing.The presence of both heat and humidity is essential as moist heat is better able to affect muscle tissue than dry heat. At least 40% humidity helps to maintain heat levels in the room and supports sweating. Sweating in dry heat may exacerbate dehydration and lead to discomfort. The heat should enhance the experience.It is recommended that students check with their health provider prior to doing yoga in the heat if they have a history of heat stroke, cardiovascular conditions, heat intolerance or have symptoms of dehydration.

---

# Page 25

Blueprint PosturesMOUNTAIN POSEThere are aspects of Mountain Pose in every yoga posture. This pose establishes neutral foreachindividual.Whatotherposturesfollowthis blueprint?
WARRIOR ONE POSEWarrior I is a neutral standing posture. Thealignment elements bring us as close to neutral as possible. The back thigh is internally rotated. This blueprint is characterized by forward facing hips. What other postures follow this blueprint?
WARRIOR TWO POSEWarrior II intentionally takes you out of neutral and challenges you to return. The front thigh isexternally rotated. This blueprint is characterized by open facing hips. What other postures followthis blueprint?

---

# Page 26

2 .5 © Yoga Flow YOGA BASIC FORMULAEach formula will make it easier to remember how to clearly verbalize directions to your students.Yoga can be intimidating for everyone, especially for beginners. It’s your job to create a space where your students feel comfortable and can approach each posture with ease. Keep your cues simple and easy to follow because beginners will only hear the first few things you say, then they will naturallymove their attention to their own bodies ratherthan your voice. The Basic Formula, Breath Posture Cue, provides a consistent template that both you and your students can rely on throughout class.Breath > Posture > Cue1.Say the Breath - Inhale or Exhale2.Say the name of the Posture3.Give Cues to move students into the postureFundamental Formulas
BPCCUE FORMULAGreat teachers select the fewest, most powerful cues to set their student up for success in each pose. The Cue Formula gives you the tools to setup your students for success. These cues can help setup a transition, setup a pose or deepen the pose. These three types of cues all rely on the Cue Formula:Verb > Your > Body Part > Direction1.Start with a Verb2.Use the qualifier “Your” to create connection with your students3.Select a Body Part using common vernacular rather than anatomical names that might be unfamiliar4.Give a clear DirectiontomovetowardsortoTransition CuesTransition cues help give clarity on how the student should move between poses. Transition cues can be engaged or disengaged from breath. For example:From Downward Facing Dog to Forward Fold“Inhale, look forward. Exhale, walk to the top of your mat.”From Ragdoll“Release your fingertips to the mat. Toe-heel your feet together.”Setup CuesUse essential cues to help your students move into the general shape of the pose. For example:In Warrior Two, first cue the feet and legs then move the spine, arms and head into the pose.“Spin your back heel down. Lift your chest to face the side of your space. Reach your arms forward and back. Gaze towards your front hand. Deepening CuesSelect cues that help your student move deeper into the pose once they’re already in the generalform. These cues can also be Muscle Action or Theme Action cues. For example: In Extended Side Angle“Draw your tailbone toward your back heel.”“Reach up with your top hand to engage your obliques.”

---

# Page 27

BREATH FORMULAIn Power Vinyasa Yoga, we move with breath.There are times in class where we move onebreath to movement and times where we land at a posture and hold for multiple breaths. To let our students know when we are going to hold a pose we add the Breath Formula. To disengage breath we use “Breathe” or “Breathe Here” and to reengage breath we use“Inhale.”Engage (Inhale) / Disengage (Breathe Here) / Reengage (Inhale)If you arrived at the posture on Inhale,you must disengage with “Breathe Here” to letstudents know they should continue breathing on their own. This is not needed if you arrived at the posture on Exhale, because their breath will disengage naturally. Whenever you’re ready tobegin again, reengage with “Inhale.”MUSCLE ACTION CUE Muscle Action Cues (MAC) deepen the student’s experience in a pose and creates a mind and body connection. In addition to cues that setup the general form of the cues, you can use muscle action cues to deepen an experience in a pose physically or energetically. The Muscle Action Cue is the Cue Formula followed by the reason for the action cued. Verb > Your > Body Part > Direction + Why Forexample:“Pressyourhandsdowntoactivateyourchestandshoulders.”PLANES FORMULATypical setup cues only require moving certain parts of the body to get students into the posebecause a flow is intelligently sequenced to easilylink poses, With deepening cues, you often want to address the entire body to enliven the pose fromthe inside out and deepen your students experience of the pose. To make this powerful and assure that your students are following along with you, utilizethe Planes Formula to cue from the ground up. This organized approach to deepening cues will helpfocus and quiet the mind of your students as well as calm your own mind and nerves.Feet + Legs > Pelvis + Spine > Arms + Head
THEME FORMULA The Theme Formula creates a space for you as the teacher to share your present learnings. Theming creates an experience that goes beyond the physical postures. You can create an impactful theme with just a few pieces: Launchyour theme and distill it to one word. Create an Experience of your theme with Theme Action Cues such as theme-inspired verbs, imagery, metaphors, theme-inspired questions or bring in learnings that inspire you. Landyour theme by connecting it to a Call to Action or Learning beyond class. Launch > Experience > LandFor example: BPC: “Inhale Mountain Pose. Reach your arms up.” Disengage the breath: “Breathe here.”Continue to cue the pose and when you are ready to move, reengage the breath:“Inhale, Exhale Forward Fold.”

---

# Page 28

MOVEMENTCue Action on beat for 2 full repetitions Cue Breath on beat for 2 full repetitions COACHINGShare options to regress or progressOffer basic, muscle action and thematic cues COUNTDOWNFrom 8 or 4 and cue what is next ForexampleinBasicCrunches:Findthebeatofthemusicthen:MOVEMENT:Lift,lower,lift,lowerExhale,Inhale,Exhale,InhaleCOACHING:LiftyourfeetuptointensitytheworkinyourlegsTaketabletoplegstosupportyourbackTakeaconfidentexhalewitheachcrunch!COUNTDOWNLast…4…3…releasein2…1MUSCLE ACTION DRILL Muscle Action Drills are repeated muscle action to create a desired outcome or teach a skill. Use the Music Formula to cue Muscle Action Drills. For example, to teach hip extension and hamstring activation, add a pulse in Three-Leg Dog:“Inhale Three-Leg Dog, Lift your right leg high”Pulse, pulse, exhale, exhale Extend your heel up and point your toes down Kick your heel towards the sky to tone your glute Last 8…MUSIC FORMULAThe Music Formula can be utilized in certain sections of class such as Core or during Muscle Action Drills. Music helps to connect the class together and when used well, can lower the Rate of Perceived Exertion. The music’s beat drives the Music Formula. Movement > Coaching > Countdown

---

# Page 29

2 .8© Yoga Flow YOGA Fundamental FormulasPracticeMUSCLE ACTION CUE (MAC)Create MACs for the following poses: Downward Facing Dog Mountain PoseBASIC FORMULAUpgrade the cues below below using the Basic FormulaOn your Inhale find TadasanaMountain Pose and then lift your arms up in space to the sky above you Chair Pose inhale, and lift your arms up Exhale, Forward Fold draw your hands through your chest and fold from your hips CUE FORMULA Upgrade the cues below below using the Cue FormulaPressing your hands downSqueeze those thighs togetherBREATH FORMULAUpgrade the cues below below using the Breath FormulaExhale Ragdoll, step your feet behind your wristsInhale Mountain Pose, reach your arms up, press your feet down. Pull your navel in towards your spine. Exhale Forward Fold, breathe here.MUSIC FORMULAUse the Music Formula to create cues:Reclined Bound Angle Crunches

---

# Page 30

2 .9 © Yoga Flow YOGA Cue EfficiencyGuide for cue approach and cueing in the momentTipExampleKnow what the pose looks likeWarrior II Know what pose you are coming from From Exhale Low LungeUse the Basic FormulaInhale Warrior IISetup the pose from the ground-upPlace your back heel downLift your torso up and face the side of the roomBreathe here (Disengage the breath when landing on an Inhale)Reach our arms out to the front and backLook at your students and offer deepening cues, support alignment or ways to personalize Pivot your back foot inwardsTrack your front knee to align with your front toesMuscle Action Cue Shorten your stance to support your balanceTheme Action CueKindly soften your shoulders away from your earsHow can you practice kindness in your poses today? Kindness àYama of Ahimsa (non-harming)Re-engage BreathInhale, Exhale Extended Side Angle

---

# Page 31

Teaching and Class Essentials1.5MINUTESTOSUNABeintentionalandpurposefulwithyourthemeandopeningandintroduceyourMuscleFocusrightaway.Keepintegration3-5posesinvariedformats2. MUSCLE and THEME ACTION CUESAfter General Form Cues, add cues that encourage muscles to activate and to deepen the student’s mind/body connection:-Mountain Pose: Root your feet down to emphasize the strength of your foundation.-Crow Pose: Tap into your courage and lean more weight into your hands!3. OFFER 2-3 FORMAT SPECIFIC INTENSITY OPTIONS and TEACH TO ALL LEVELSUse format specific intensity options offered in each Format and include layers using Depth, Angle, Prop, Pose (DAPP) and adding ways for regression and progression. 4. 2-5 MINUTES OF CONSTRUCTIVE REST OR SAVĀSANARest is essential to a well-balanced practice and a way to purposefully close the practice, and an invitation to connect to the subtle parts of the yoga practice.-Constructive Rest/Savasana begins when the teacher is silent.-Properly close the class and guide the students out of Savasana

---

# Page 32

ThemingWHERE TO START-Choose your favorite quote, line from a book, yoga sutra, yama/niyama, story, parable, etc-Be sure the quote or idea is accessible, universal and secular-Make sure that you can say it briefly and easily-How does it speak to you? What emotions or thoughts come to mind?-What postures, sequences or tempo express that emotion?-What language or words can you bring into class?-When in class do you bring back in your quote or theme? Where would it be most powerful?-Prepare and practice saying the theme to a fellow teacherSelect a theme and write the short phrase down. What are the emotions that it brings up? What verbs and descriptive language can you use to enhance or communicate your theme? Create a theme using the template below: LAUNCH Distill your theme to one word or phraseEXPERIENCE Use theme-inspired verbs, metaphor, imagery to create the experience -Theme Action Cue 1 -Theme Action Cue 2-Theme Action Cue 3LAND Share why your theme is important to you and a call to action for your students Having a theme to your yoga class is powerful, however, it is more important that you firstcommunicate the postures clearly and setup the ideal environment. As a new teacher, you need to build credibility in your teaching voice before you veer into philosophical territory.If you arestruggling with remembering a sequence, you hold the class too long in a challenging pose or playing loud discordant music, chances are students willnot have the mental space to thinkabout anything else.Yoga Flow Yoga Teacher Training is the perfectenvironment to collect feedback on howeffectively you are communicating. Spend this time honingyour skills in being as concise and clear in teaching the C1 sequence as possible. When you feel ready to addin a theme, be sure that thetheme issimple, clear and true to your experience. Teachthe lessons that you want to learn; it insures your lessons come from the heart.WHAT IS A THEME?-A shortphrase that incorporates a context or philosophical learning for a particular practice-Something that connects the physical practice and postures to living life off of our mat-A theme remains consistent through thepractice, but maybe phrased and explained many different ways2.11© Yoga Flow YOGA -What is theming?-Why do we do it?-What does a theme that really lands feel like as a student?-What about when it doesn’t land?-What makes a theme successful?

---

# Page 33

THEME FORMULALAUNCHDistill your theme down to one word
EXPERIENCECreate at least 3 Theme Action Cues
LANDEnd class with a call to action, an invitation to continue exploring your theme or learning
2.12 © Yoga Flow YOGA Theming TemplateCreate a theme based on what is present for you, what you are working on or a source of inspiration.

---

# Page 34

2 .13© Yoga Flow YOGA Keys to AlignmentBUILDASTRONGFOUNDATIONAlltheposturesstartfrom whatistouchingthe earth.ESTABLISHNEUTRALALIGNMENTFindwhatisneutral foryourbodytype andbone structure.STACKJOINTS ANDFORMRIGHTANGLESUtilizethestrongestpositionofyourjoints.BALANCE,CONTROLANDSURRENDERAllarepresentwhenworkingonalignmentinany posture.WORKFROMTHEBONESAlignmentiscreatedwiththehelpofyourmuscles; it isachievedwhenyoufocusontheskeleton.

---

# Page 35

2.14 A demo in class is when a teacher demonstrates a pose to reveal particular alignment, effort orapproach to the students. This teaching tool allows you to share a lot of information in a short amount of time. Use concise language and feel free topoint or draw awareness to specific areas of the pose. Consider using the same language you willsubsequently use to cue your students through the pose for emphasis.FULL DEMOPut your students into a comfortable position(kneeling, sitting, standing at attention) and stop class to demonstrate the posture. Move to theplace in the classroom that offers your studentsthe best angle and view. This might mean the side, front, middle or back of the room. Use conciselanguage during the demo and point to specific areas of focus. Then ask the students to try itthemselves. Use the same concise language while the students are practicing the pose.In a C1, full demos are required for Chaturanga, Boat Pose and Crow Pose.DEMO WHILE TEACHINGDemo the pose while your students are alsoperforming the pose. Use general form cues toguide your students into a particular posture. As you do so, make your way toward the side of the room in which your students will face. Mirror your students and physically move into the postureyourself. It’s essential to move to the place inthe classroom that offers students the best view and remember you will be doing the pose on the opposite side. Use this option when students willbe in a pose for several breaths and when it’s safe for your students to look without straining theirneck or shoulders.In a C1, optional demos while teaching include Warrior Two, Extended Side Angle, ReverseWarrior, Revolved Crescent Lunge, Warrior One, Half Pigeon and Camel.CHATURANGAAsk your students to come to their knees andwatch the demonstration. Chaturanga is physically demanding pose so encourage your students tomodify as they need throughout their practice. Give them all three options during your demo.Start with High Plank Pose. From a Halfway Lift,plant your hands on the mat and step back to High Plank. Walk them through the ground up cues toproperly get into High Plank Pose.Next, explain moving from High to Low Plank.From High Plank Pose, shift forward and bendyour elbows up to 90 degrees. Walk them through the ground up cues to properly get into Low Plank Pose. Let students know that shifting your body forward is crucial to maintaining the optimalalignment from High Plank to Low Chaturanga and achieving a 90 degree angle at your elbows andwrists. Also emphasize bringing weight into thefront triad of the palm (the first finger and thumb) to relieve pressure in the back of the palm at thewrist.Then move into Upward Facing Dog. FromChaturanga, turn the tops of your feet down and straighten your arms. Walk them through ground up cues here.Finally move to Downward Facing Dog. FromUpward Facing Dog, flip or curl your toes under,push into your hands, engage your abdominals and send your hips up and back.Stand back up and explain that a second optionin Chaturanga is to drop to your knees for High to Low Plank. Switch directions so that students can see you from a new angle. Now move through HighDemos

---

# Page 36

2 .15© Yoga Flow YOGA Plank, High to Low Plank on your knees, Upward Facing Dog and Downward Facing Dog.Finally, let them know that a third is to hold High Plank and then press directly back to Downward Facing Dog. You do not need to physically demothis option.BOAT POSEFrom Bicycle Sit-ups, ask your students to roll up to seated with knees bent and feet flat on theground. Recommended location is in the front of the room facing your students so they can seeyou and you can see their alignment while you cue them into layers of the pose. This is a demo where they work with you into the pose as you cue. You will give options for layers in this pose so people can choose which layer is best for them to playtheir edge while maintaining a long spine. Thistrains the fundamental muscle actions in the whole wall of core muscles in this pose.Keep your feet on the ground and bring your hands behind your thighs. Lengthen your spine as youdraw your shoulder blades together down yourback. Cue them through this as you demonstrate. Give them the option to stay here or keep following you. Lean back while you maintain a long spineand lift your feet up to bring your shins parallel to the floor. Again, give them the option to stayhere or continue with you. Extend your arms out to the side. Once you have held the pose for a breath or two, you can come out of the pose and movearound the room again.CROW POSEFrom Downward Facing Dog, ask your students to come to their knees and watch the demonstration or if they are familiar with Crow Pose, to moveinto the pose. Crow Pose is a physically demanding and sometimes intimidating pose. Encourage your students to try it in steps; even shifting the weightforward into their hands is very empoweringEmphasize bringing weight into the front triad of the palm (where the first finger inserts into the palm) to relieve pressure in the back of the palm at the wrist. The shift forward and squeezing ofthe inner thighs into the upper arms bolsters core strength and provides elevation.WARRIOR TWOReiterate the importance of keeping the frontknee stacked directly over the front ankle. It is also important to explain the engagement of the backleg. Direct students to point their foot slightlyforward and engage through their back quadricep.You can also help students identify the position of their upper body and direct them to bring their shoulders directly over their hips. It can be helpful to show your students the extremes (too farforward or too far back) and then end with a visual of a properly aligned torso.EXTENDED SIDE ANGLEAcknowledge the fact that the foundation ofExtended Side Angle is the same as Warrior Two.Emphasize the importance of keeping the frontknee stacked over the ankle and the engagement of the back leg. Additionally, draw attentionto ways in which students can adjust commonLOOK FOR . Show your students what it means to lift your ribs away from your front thigh andto keep the bottom shoulder drawn down. It’s isalso helpful to address the placement of the front arm/hand. Let your students know that it is more important to maintain a long torso than to touch the floor with their front hand. Give your students permission to bring their forearm to their thigh as a great option and show them what this looks like.REVERSE WARRIORLike Warrior Two and Extended Side Angle, the foundation for this pose remains the same. While the upper body shifts, remind your students to

---

# Page 37

2 .16continually bend their front leg. A big focal point for Reverse Warrior is the orientation of the chest. Rather than opening the chest upward, emphasize the importance of keeping the chest lifted andside facing. Another great teaching point is to reference the back shoulder and arm. Encourageyour students to draw the back shoulder down and keep minimal weight in the back hand.REVOLVED CRESCENT LUNGEEmphasize the importance of a strong foundation to support the twist. To stabilize their foundation, encourage students to draw their inner thighs toward one another. Additionally, give thempermission to bring their back knee to themat as another option (this is a great thing to demonstrate to your students so they feel safeand supported in taking a different option). From there, explain how students can leverage theconnection of their bottom elbow and thigh to lift and twist through their torso. Empower them to take whichever version is most accessible to them and be sure to speak positively to all options, astwisting postures can be very challenging.WARRIOR ONEWith your students in Downward Facing Dog, verbally cue them into Warrior One. Position yourself at the front of the room and assumeWarrior One stance on the same side your students are on.HALF PIGEONWith your students in Downward Facing Dog, verbally cue them into Half Pigeon. Positionyourself at the front of the room and assume Half Pigeon on the same side your students are on.This posture can be very challenging for students with tight hips. For this reason, we give students 3 breaths to keep their torso upright. Then we givethem 3 breaths to fold forward. You may also want to call attention to their back foot and remindyour students to point their back foot straightback. You can exemplify the importance of a lifted, lengthened chest and give them a visual of theplacement of the front knee.CAMELFrom all fours, invite students to stand on their knees with their torso upright. Position yourselfat the front of the room. Emphasize the lift of the chest in this posture rather than the bend in thelow back. Hand placement is also important topoint out so the students are fully support as they move into this spine strengthener. Give students a starting point and let them know that they might just look up toward the ceiling and that looking up and back isn’t necessarily better. Reassure themthat physical sensation in this posture is very normal and that they can release at any time.

---

# Page 38

2.18© Yoga Flow YOGA Music and YogaMusic is a form of yoga—Nada yoga, or the yoga of sound. Nada yoga is a way to approach music with reverence. Music in this context is more than justsomething you like or don’t like. It becomes a way to create harmony between your inner and outer world.Music can be very influential in setting the tone for a class. To begin forming your first playlist, startlistening with intention and reverence. Take yogaclasses from a variety of teachers and note of how different music affects you and your practice. Ifthe teacher is comfortable sharing their music, collect artists and songs from their playlist.On your first playlist, start slow. You will have a lot to manage in the classroom in your first fewclasses. A playlist ideally adds to the atmosphere of a class in a positive way. If you feel you need to turn your music down, because it is distracting,that is a good sign that you need to change your playlist. It’s highly recommended that you startout with a predominately instrumental or ambient mix.CREATE A PLAYLISTGreat playlists create a mood or tone of harmony and follows the intensity of class. A good place to start is instrumental or ambient music on Spotify or iTunes. Try Lifescapes, Buddha Bar, Yoga Fit or Putumayo Presents. Once you are comfortable in the classroom and are ready for more creativity,try Pandora to find new artists or YouTube tocheck out songs you hear on the radio, TV, movies or elsewhere.To get started, take each section of your sequence and define the intensity level of the physical poses. What type of songs would work for each section? What qualities of music would aid this sectionof the sequence? You’ll want to create an order or sequence of songs that match the intensity of each section.Try starting with calmer songs, build the energy to a climax and then come back to calm music.Use the different tempos of music to create amusic sequence that follows the flow of your class.Create smooth transitions from one song to thenext—consider whether one song builds to the next or drops off too dramatically.Listen to a song all the way through beforechoosing to put it on a playlist. Pay attention to the lyrics—ask yourself, “Are they appropriatelyrics for a yoga setting?” If not, skip it. Remember a playlist is an act of service to your students’practice, not only about what you like.Now take the lists you have made and begin tocraft a playlist for your basic sequence of poses. Play the music as you practice the full class. How did it feel? What worked and didn’t work? Makeadjustments until you have a playlist that matches the intensity and intention for each section of your class.
Music as Energy: What music will support the higher energy part of class vs lower, calmer parts?CLASS AS A BELL CURVE

---
