# Page 37

2 .16continually bend their front leg. A big focal point for Reverse Warrior is the orientation of the chest. Rather than opening the chest upward, emphasize the importance of keeping the chest lifted andside facing. Another great teaching point is to reference the back shoulder and arm. Encourageyour students to draw the back shoulder down and keep minimal weight in the back hand.REVOLVED CRESCENT LUNGEEmphasize the importance of a strong foundation to support the twist. To stabilize their foundation, encourage students to draw their inner thighs toward one another. Additionally, give thempermission to bring their back knee to themat as another option (this is a great thing to demonstrate to your students so they feel safeand supported in taking a different option). From there, explain how students can leverage theconnection of their bottom elbow and thigh to lift and twist through their torso. Empower them to take whichever version is most accessible to them and be sure to speak positively to all options, astwisting postures can be very challenging.WARRIOR ONEWith your students in Downward Facing Dog, verbally cue them into Warrior One. Position yourself at the front of the room and assumeWarrior One stance on the same side your students are on.HALF PIGEONWith your students in Downward Facing Dog, verbally cue them into Half Pigeon. Positionyourself at the front of the room and assume Half Pigeon on the same side your students are on.This posture can be very challenging for students with tight hips. For this reason, we give students 3 breaths to keep their torso upright. Then we givethem 3 breaths to fold forward. You may also want to call attention to their back foot and remindyour students to point their back foot straightback. You can exemplify the importance of a lifted, lengthened chest and give them a visual of theplacement of the front knee.CAMELFrom all fours, invite students to stand on their knees with their torso upright. Position yourselfat the front of the room. Emphasize the lift of the chest in this posture rather than the bend in thelow back. Hand placement is also important topoint out so the students are fully support as they move into this spine strengthener. Give students a starting point and let them know that they might just look up toward the ceiling and that looking up and back isn’t necessarily better. Reassure themthat physical sensation in this posture is very normal and that they can release at any time.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-036.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-038.md)
