# Page 222

5 .5 Flexion/FlexMovement that decreases the angle of a joint,bends a joint or brings the bones closer together. When you curl your entire body into a tiny ball,including fingers, wrists and toes, you are flexing every joint in your body.Extension/ExtendMovement that straightens or opens a joint.Pretend you were jumping out of a plane with your arms and legs forced out behind you by the wind - you are extending every joint in your body.Abduction/AbductMoves the extremities or arms and legs away from the midline of the body. In Warrior two, you abduct your arms. ABDucted by aliens = movement awayAdduction/AdductMoves the extremities towards the midline of the body. In Eagle, you adduct your arms before you cross them. ADD togetherRotation/RotateRotary movement around an axis of a bone. if the axis had a magic marker attached, it would draw a dotCircumduction/CircumductCircular movement, combining flexion, extension, adduction and abduction not to be confused with rotation. if the body part had a magic markerattached, it would draw a circleHyperextension/HyperextendExtending the joint beyond the neutral anatomical position.Inversion/InvertMoving the sole of the foot toward the midline of the body - a combination of adduction and supination of the foot and ankle.Eversion/EvertMoving the sole of the foot away from the midline of the body - a combination of abduction andpronation of the foot and ankle. when you have an “eversion” to something, you want it AWAY from youElevation/ElevateLift up towards the head as in lifting your shoulders towards your ears.Depression/DepressMove downward towards the feet as in moving your shoulders away from your ears.Protraction/ProtractMove away from midline of the body. Roll the shoulders forward without elevating.Retraction/RetractMove towards the midline of the body. Pull theshoulder blades back without moving them down.Supination/SupinateExternal rotation resulting in appendage facingupward as in palms face up. you carry SOUP with palms face upPronation/PronateInternal rotation resulting in appendage facingdownward as in palms face down. the opposite of how you carry soupDorsiflexion/DorsiflexMoving the top of the foot toward the shin,commonly referred to as flexing. a flexed foot is the shape of a DORSal fin on a dolphinPlantarflexion/PlantarflexMoving the top of the foot away from the shin,commonly referred to as pointing. foot point starts with a “P”anatomy glossary


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-221.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-223.md)
