# Page 240

5.23 MOTOR DIVISIONThe motor division of the nervous system reacts to the stimuli brought in from the sensory division. It is divided into two systems. The Somatic Nervous System oversees the parts of our bodies we canvoluntarily control. For example; if you’re sitting next to a fire and it feels too warm for comfort, you voluntarily activate your leg muscles to moveyour body further from the flames. The Autonomic Nervous System responds to stimuli withoutvoluntary or conscious effort, such as the release of stress hormones if you feel yourself overheating in an uncomfortable way.The autonomic nervous system has twobranches; sympathetic and parasympathetic. Thesympathetic nervous system up-regulates our body functions. These are the feelings of fight, flightand fright that occur when a stressful situation is sensed. Our sympathetic nervous system is often overworked in our yoga students due to stresses of daily life in the modern world.The parasympathetic nervous system down-regulates our body functions. This is the relaxation response that allows us to rest, restore and repair.The practice of yoga gives the para-sympathetic nervous system a chance to do its thing, topractice relaxation.ACTIVITYExplore your sensory receptors. Close your eyes and hold your arms out infront of you. Do you know where your hands are? Do you know where your feet are? Could you stand up without swaying? Could you stand on one leg? Why is this important?When teaching, ask your studentsto bring their shoulders all the way to their ears and hold, then slowly all the way down. Repeat severaltimes. By bringing a muscle to each end point, it is better able to find the proper resting length.


---
[← Prev](/pages/page-239.md) &nbsp; [Top](/index.md) &nbsp; [Next →](/pages/page-241.md)
