---
title: 'HightoLowPlankDemoReturntoDownwardFacingDog2xflow'
slug: 'hightolowplankdemoreturntodownwardfacingdog2xflow'
group: 'Training'
order: 81
summary: 'Sun A INMountainPoseSetup Cue: 1. Reach your arms up2. Turn your pinkies inward Disengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Pin your inner ankles to center your balance2. Close the gap b'
tags: []
---

Sun A INMountainPoseSetup Cue: 1. Reach your arms up2. Turn your pinkies inward Disengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Pin your inner ankles to center your balance2. Close the gap between your hip pointers and ribs to engage your coreEXForwardFoldSetup Cue: 1. Bring your hands through heart and fold forward2. Bend your knees any amount for support Deepening Cue: 1. Shift weight forward to stack your hips and ankles2. Tuckyourchinintoyourchesttostretchyourupper backHigh to Low Plank Demo“Come down to your knees. I’ll demonstrate options to help you feel successful and supported during your High to Low Plank transitions. Each posture has its own breath and alignment. Pick the option that supports you today or try all three…From Halfway Lift demo High to Low plank with 1-2 basic cues for:-High Plank, Low Plank, and Upward Facing Dog-High to Low Plank from knees-Verbally offer layer of holding High Plank to personalize-Add your cues to the flow when they fit into your breath rhythmposesSUNAINMountainPoseEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDogINLookforwardEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXForwardFold
HightoLowPlankDemoReturntoDownwardFacingDog2xflow

---

# Page 174

Sun BINChairPoseSetup Cue: 1. Bend your knees and sit your hips back2. Reach your arms up Disengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Pin your inner ankles to center your balance2. Close the gap between your hip pointers and ribs to engage your coreINWarrior2Setup Cue: 1. Rise to stand and parallel your back foot with the back of the mat2. Stack your shoulders over your hips and bring your arms out to a TDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Walk your front toes out past your front knee, and deepen your lunge2. Hug your belly towards your spine to engage your core musclesEXExtendedSideAngleSetup Cue: 1. Hinge from your hips and bring your front elbow to your front thigh2. Reach your back arm towards the ceiling or overheadDeepening Cue: 1. Push into both feet to strengthen your foundation2. Lengthen your tailbone towards your back heel to lengthen through your spineINReverseWarriorSetup Cue: 1. Stay low in your lunge2. Reach your front arm up and backDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Press into your back foot to press your hips forward and lift out of your back hip joint2. Draw your ribs together to reconnect to your coreposesSUNBINLookforwardEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXForwardFoldINChairPoseEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDogINThreeLegDogRightLegEXLowLungeINWarrior2EXExtendedSideAngleINReverseWarriorEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDog2xflowLowerdowntoyourkneesforCoreINThreeLegDogLeftLegEXLowLungeINWarrior2EXExtendedSideAngleINReverseWarriorEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDog

---

# Page 175

Core“Come down to your knees and take a quick break. Lower down to your back for Core.”Reclined Bound Angle Sit-upsPress the soles of your feet together. Slide your fingers by your ears. Music FormulaMovementLift –Lower –Lift –Lower Exhale –Inhale –Exhale –Inhale CoachingGaze up to keep length in your spine Lift your heels up to challenge yourself or table top your legs to lessen the intensity Countdown Last 8…Hug your knees in 4…Bicycle TwistsPress the soles of your feet together. Slide your fingers by your ears. Music FormulaMovementTwist Right –Center –Twist Left -CenterExhale –Inhale –Exhale –Inhale CoachingLine up your heels over your hips to engage your core Meet your elbow to your knee to maximize your twistCountdown Last 8…Full body stretch in 4…Roll up to Boat Pose Setup Cue:1. Grab behind your knees or extend your arms2. Lift your chest Deepening Cue:1. Extend your legs to challenge your core 2. Draw your gaze up to maintain the lift in your chestposesCOREEXReclinedBoundAngleSit-upsEXBicycleTwistsINBoatPoseRockandrolltoHighPlankINEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDog

---

# Page 176

Crescent Series (pt. 1)INCrescentLungeSetup Cue: 1. Lift your arms up2. Steer both hips forward to face the frontDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Drag your heels together to ignite your legs2. Line up your shoulders over your hips to maintain axial extensionEXRevolvedCrescentLungeSetup Cue: 1. Bring your hands to heart center and lean forward2. Hook your elbow to the outside of your thighDeepening Cue: 1. Lift your torso away from your spine to lengthen and strengthen your obliques2. Lower down to your knee to focus on the spineIN, EXRunner’s LungeSetup Cue: 1. Release your hands to the mat inside of your front foot2. Move your front foot forward and out to stack your knee over your ankleDeepening Cue: 1. Hug your legs towards each other to stabilize through your pelvis2. Energize through your back heel or soften your knee to the ground*Theme Action Cue: Honor what your body needs in this moment.Transition: Step back to High PlankINSidePlankSetup Cue: 1. Pivot your heels R/L and shift your weight to your R/L hand2. Reach the other arm up Disengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1.stack your shoulders over your supporting wrist and soften through your elbow and push into your hand to lift out of your joints2.Bring your hips in line with your heels and shoulders to activate your core*Repeat on other side before moving to Prayer Twist*posesCRESCENTSERIESINThreeLegDogRightLegEXLowLungeINCrescentLungeEXRevolvedCrescentLungeINCenterEXRunner’sLungeStepbacktoHighPlankINSidePlankFacingRINLookforwardEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXForwardFoldINChairEXPrayerTwistRINEXGorillaPoseINChairEXPrayerTwistLINEXGorillaPoseCrowPoseDemonstrationEXChild’sPoseINThreeLegDogLeftLegEXLowLungeINCrescentLungeEXRevolvedCrescentLungeINCenterEXRunner’sLungeStepbacktoHighPlankINSidePlankFacingL

---

# Page 177

Crescent Series (pt. 2)INChairPoseEXPrayerTwistSetup Cue: 1. Bring your hands to heart center and lean forward2. Hook your elbow to the outside of your thighDeepening Cue: 1. Press your palms into one another to lift your chest2. Hug your inner thighs together to align your hipsIN,EXGorillaPoseSetup Cue: 1. Fold forward and release your hands to the mat2. One at a time, slide your hands under your feet and face your palms upDeepening Cue: 1. Bend your knees generously to release your back line2. Let your head hang heavy to relax your neck and shoulders*Theme Action Cue: Wiggle your toes to massage your palms and wrists, andshow them some love and appreciation.*Repeat Prayer Twist on the Left, then bring your students to a seat*Crow Pose Demo“Plant your palms at least shoulder-width apart. Squat down and lift your heels up. Bring your knees up towards your triceps or elbows. Bend your elbows to create a shelf and shift forward to place more weight on your hands. Play with lifting one or both legs off ofyour mat. Look forward instead of down to avoid rolling forward. Remember to breathe. Rest in Child’s Pose when you’re done. posesCRESCENTSERIESINLookforwardEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXForwardFoldINChairEXPrayerTwistRINEXGorillaPoseINChairEXPrayerTwistLINEXGorillaPoseCrowPoseDemonstrationEXChild’sPose

---

# Page 178

Balancing Series”INChairEXEaglePoseSetup Cue: 1. Hug your right arm under your left and join your elbows, wrists and palms2. Lift your right leg and wrap it over your leftDeepening Cue: 1. Choose a bear hug to free space in your shoulders and chest2. Line up your knees and belly button to align your spineRepeat left sideIN Mountain PoseEXDancer’sPoseSetup Cue: 1. Lower your right arm to your hip and reach back to capture your right foot2. Stretch your left arm up and lift your gaze Deepening Cue: 1. Draw your inner knees towards center to stabilize your backbend2. Kick into your hand to open your chestRepeat left sideINTreePoseSetup Cue: 1. Place your right foot into your left ankle, calf or inner thigh avoiding the knee2. Guide your palms to heartDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Reciprocate the press of your foot into your leg to firm up your standing leg2. Extend your lifted knee to the side to open your hip Repeat left side*Theme Action Cue: Invite the quality of reciprocity as you balance. Gratitude does not diminish the more you share it. In fact, the more it is shared, the more opportunity for it to regenerate. posesBALANCINGSERIESINChairEXEaglePoseRINChairEXEaglePoseLINMountainEXDancer’sPoseRINMountainEXDancer’sPoseLINMountainPoseEXStandatAttentionINTreePoseREXStandatAttentionINTreePoseREXStandatAttentionINTreePoseRINMountainPoseEXForwardFoldINHalfwayLiftEXHightoLowPlankINUpwardFacingDogEXDownwardFacingDog

---

# Page 179

Triangle Series“INWarrior1Setup Cue: 1. Plant your back heel down2. Rise to stand and bring arms your overheadDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Press the pinky edge of your back foot down to activate your back leg2. Lift your front hip points up to lengthen your lower backEXWarrior2INExtendyourfrontkneeEXTrianglePoseSetup Cue: 1. Hinge forward and bring your front hand to your front shin or a block2. Reach your back hand upDeepening Cue: 1. Soften through your front knee and draw your legs towards each other to connect to your inner thighs and core2. Lift your torso away from your front thigh to activate your obliquesINStarPoseEXParallelyourfeetandbringyourarmstoaTINLiftyourchestEXWideLegFoldSetup Cue: 1. Hinge forward from your hips2. Bring your hands to the floor or to a block Deepening Cue: 1. Turn your toes in and soften your knees to create space your low back2.Hang your head heavy and relax your neck to decompress your spineposesTRIANGLESERIESINThreeLegDogRightLegEXLowLungeINWarrior1EXWarrior2INStraightenyourlegEXTriangleINStarEXWide-legFoldINThreeLegDogLeftLegEXLowLungeINWarrior1EXWarrior2INStraightenyourlegEXTriangleINStarEXWide-legFold,optionforchestexpansion

---

# Page 180

Hips"EXHalfPigeonSetup Cue: 1. Bring your (R or L) knee behind your (same-R or L) wrist and rest your shin on the mat2. Slide your back toes out to extend through your back legDeepening Cue: 1. Adjust the angle of your front shin to take pressure out of your knee joint and bring sensation to your front outer hip2. Drive your back hip forward to lengthen your hip flexorRepeat on other sideTransition: Shift to high plank, lower to your belly. Spine“INCobraPoseSetup Cue: 1. Keep your hands under your shoulders and zip your legs up together2. Lift your chest and lengthen your gaze forwardDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Push into the tops of your feet to activate through the backs of your legs2. Hug your belly in and spiral your inner thighs up and back to connect to your core and release your low backTransition: Release, gaze right. Bring your chin back to center.INBowPoseSetup Cue: 1. Bend your knees and kick your heels towards your glutes2. Reach your arms back towards your feet, and if you can make contact, take your feet into your hands Disengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Kick your feet into your hands to expand through your chest2. Bring your weight onto the soft part of your belly, to take any pressure out of your hip pointsRelease, gaze left. posesHIPSINThreeLegDogRightlegEXHalfPigeonINEXDownwardFacingDogINThreeLegDogLeftlegEXHalfPigeonINEXDownwardFacingDogSPINEINHighPlankEXLowertoyourbellyINCobraPoseEXLower,gazerightINBowPoseEXLower,gazeleftINCenter,pressuptoTableTopEXCamelPoseLowertoyourbackINBridgePoseEXReclinedBoundAnglePose

---

# Page 181

Spine (cont.)“Transition:Pressuptotabletopandstanduponyourknees.EXCamelPoseSetup Cue: 1. Bring your hands to your low back, pointing your finger tips down2. Send your hips forward, as you walk your gaze up and back along the ceilingDeepening Cue: 1. Push into your shins or feet to feel your glutes and hamstrings support you2. Hug your inner thighs together and spiral them back to real ease your low back Transition: Lower down to your back, plant your feet down.INBridgePoseSetup Cue: 1. Bend your knees and bring your feet in line with your hips near your glutes2. Press into your feet to lift your hipsDisengage the BreathDeepening Cue: 1. Squeeze your inner thighs together to connect to your core2. Draw your chin away from your chest to extend your neck and throatEXReclinedBoundAngleSetup Cue: 1. Bring the soles of your feet together and allow your knees to open to the sides2. Option to bring one hand to your belly and the other to your heart*Theme Action Cue: Pause here for a few breaths. Take this moment to appreciate how hard you’ve worked thus far. posesSPINEINHighPlankEXLowertoyourbellyINCobraPoseEXLower,gazerightINBowPoseEXLower,gazeleftINCenter,pressuptoTableTopEXCamelPoseLowertoyourbackINBridgePoseEXReclinedBoundAnglePose

---
