---
title: Joints
slug: joints
group: Anatomy
order: 33
summary: >-
  for Maximum Support- Track your knees in line with your big and middle toes-
  Watch for knocked knees or bow legged knees- Watch for Knees straight vs.
  lockedCreate Core Stability- …
tags: []
---
# Joints

for Maximum Support- Track your knees in line with your big and middle toes- Watch for knocked knees or bow legged knees- Watch for Knees straight vs. locked Create Core Stability- Engage the muscles of your pelvic floor- Draw your front ribs down to neutral- Engage your abdominal muscles in and up Relax Your Shoulders Back and Down- Retract and depress your shoulder blades back and down- Maintain your neutral ribcage position Align Your Spine- Maintain your head and neck movements along with the rest of your spine- Maintain length in the back of your neck
- --

5 .5 Flexion/Flex Movement that decreases the angle of a joint, bends a joint or brings the bones closer together. When you curl your entire body into a tiny ball, including fingers, wrists and toes, you are flexing every joint in your body. Extension/Extend Movement that straightens or opens a joint. Pretend you were jumping out of a plane with your arms and legs forced out behind you by the wind
- you are extending every joint in your body. Abduction/Abduct Moves the extremities or arms and legs away from the midline of the body. In Warrior two, you abduct your arms. AB Ducted by aliens = movement away Adduction/Adduct Moves the extremities towards the midline of the body. In Eagle, you adduct your arms before you cross them. ADD together Rotation/Rotate Rotary movement around an axis of a bone. if the axis had a magic marker attached, it would draw a dot Circumduction/Circumduct Circular movement, combining flexion, extension, adduction and abduction not to be confused with rotation. if the body part had a magic markerattached, it would draw a circle Hyperextension/Hyperextend Extending the joint beyond the neutral anatomical position. Inversion/Invert Moving the sole of the foot toward the midline of the body
- a combination of adduction and supination of the foot and ankle. Eversion/Evert Moving the sole of the foot away from the midline of the body
- a combination of abduction andpronation of the foot and ankle. when you have an “eversion” to something, you want it AWAY from you Elevation/Elevate Lift up towards the head as in lifting your shoulders towards your ears. Depression/Depress Move downward towards the feet as in moving your shoulders away from your ears. Protraction/Protract Move away from midline of the body. Roll the shoulders forward without elevating. Retraction/Retract Move towards the midline of the body. Pull theshoulder blades back without moving them down. Supination/Supinate External rotation resulting in appendage facingupward as in palms face up. you carry SOUP with palms face up Pronation/Pronate Internal rotation resulting in appendage facingdownward as in palms face down. the opposite of how you carry soup Dorsiflexion/Dorsiflex Moving the top of the foot toward the shin, commonly referred to as flexing. a flexed foot is the shape of a DOR Sal fin on a dolphin Plantarflexion/Plantarflex Moving the top of the foot away from the shin, commonly referred to as pointing. foot point starts with a “P”anatomy glossary
- --

5 .6 © Yoga Flow YOGA Bones In Yoga, we use x-ray body reading skills to see if our students are in safe alignment. Look underthe muscles and soft tissue and see the bones underneath. BONES- Make up the skeleton and support and protect the internal organs- Living tissue that form the body’s structural framework- Bone is a special form of connective tissue; the hardest of all connective tissue- Provides calcium and minerals storage important for muscle contraction- Bones grow and strengthen with resistance and gravitational pressure- Lack of healthy stress weakens the bones- Weight bearing exercises aid in preventingosteoporosis, a disease in which bones become fragile and become more likely to break- Resistance training and muscle strength gained from activities like yoga stimulates bone growth and can contribute to increased bone density AXIAL SKELETON- Skull, sternum, ribs, spine- Yoga Application: Stabilize the axial skeleton while moving the arms and legs around during many yoga postures and transitions.- Create core strength by stabilizing themovement of the arms and legs with the center of the body and squeeze towards the midline. APPENDICULAR SKELETON- Shoulder girdle, pelvic girdle, upper and lower extremities- Yoga Application: We move the major joints of the appendicular skeleton during many yogaposes. Phalanges # Talus # Metatarsals # Tibia # Fibula # Patella # Femur # Ilium # Sacrum # Lumbar Vertebra # Thoracic Vertebra # Cervical Vertebra # Skull # Ribs # Sternum # Clavicle # Scapula # Humerus # Radius # Ulna # Carpals # Metacarpals # Phalanges 22, Talus 20, Metatarsals 21, Tibia 18, Fibula 19, Patella 17, Femur 16, Ilium 14, Sacrum 15, Lumbar Vertebra 9, Thoracic Vertebra 8, Cervical Vertebra 2, Skull 1, Ribs 7, Sternum 6, Clavicle 3, Scapula 5, Humerus 4, Radius 10, Ulna 11, Carpals 12, Metacarpals 13
- --

# 91514485

91514485
19182013101176312
212217162212
- --

# Cervical Vertebrae C 1 - C 7

5 .8 © Yoga Flow YOGA Spine CENTRAL AXIS OF THE BODY The Central Axis is usually composed of 33 Vertebrae with the coccyx is at the very tip- 7 Cervical Vertebrae (C 1-C 7)- 12 Thoracic Vertebrae (T 1-T 12)- 5 Lumbar (L 1-L 5)- 5 sacral vertebrae fused together (S 1-S 5)- 4 frequently fused Coccygeal Vertebrae, also known as the tailbone 4 NATURAL CURVES Together these four curves provide balance and fluid movement. They act as shock absorbers; transferring and dispersing energy. Without the curves, our movements would be rigid and tight and we would not be able to twist, bend, and extend like we do in our yoga postures.
1. Cervical Lordosis curve toward front body
2. Thoracic Kyphosis curve toward back body
3. Lumbar Lordosis curve toward front body
4. Sacral Kyphosis curve toward back body WEAK LINKS We tend to move in these areas more because of the ease compared to the rest of the spine. Asa result, these areas become more mobile while other parts of the spine become tighter which can lead to injury. In yoga, we tend to:- Hinge at the lower neck C 7-T 1- Flare ribs T 12-L 1- Overarch through the lower back L 5-S 1 SPINAL MOTION- Flexion Sagittal Plane, in a Forward Fold- Extension Sagittal Plane, in a Backbend- Lateral Flexion Frontal Plane Bends right and left, in a Side Bend- Rotation Transverse Plane rotates right and left, in a Twist- Axial Extension Elevate each vertebrae for maximum disc space, when you sit up as straight as you can LUMBAR PELVIC RHYTHM In Yoga, it is important to lead from the spine with the head in neutral alignment and to bend theknees as needed to maintain the natural Lumbar-Pelvic Rhythm. If hamstrings are tight, it willprevent this movement so a bend in the knees is necessary and will help support the proper form and alignment. The natural lumbar-pelvic rhythm is the simultaneous action of lumbar flexion and forward tilt of the pelvis in the sagittal planeduring trunk flexion.
Cervical Vertebrae C 1 - C 7
Thoracic Vertebrae T 1 - T 12
Lumbar Vertebrae I 1
- I 5 Sacral Vertebrae S 1
- S 5 Coccyx
- --

ACTIVITY Bend forward. This is lumbar flexion followed by forward tilting of thepelvis at the hip joints (“duck butt” movement). Stand upright and bend forward again. Notice that theseare two separate movements of the body, low back forward folding and forward tilting of the pelvis. These motions must happen at the sametime in any forward fold to be safe on the low back, otherwise we unsafely put pressure on the lumbar spinaldiscs. If there is not enough length in the hamstrings, the knees mustbe bent to create slack for the pelvis to tilt forward. Initiate a return tothe standing posture by the reverse movement - the backwards tiltingof the pelvis at the hips followed by extension (opposite of a forwardfold) of the lumbar spine to return to neutral.
lumbarsacrum
hip jointmore reading recos If you want to dive deeper, try these... Yoga Anatomy, 2 nd Edition Leslie Kaminoff and Amy Matthews The Anatomy of Hatha Yoga: A Manual for Students, Teachers and Practitioners H. David Coulter Anatomy Trains Thomas Myers Yogabody: Anatomy, Kinesiology, and Asana Judith Hanson Lasater The Key Muscles of Yoga: Scientific Keys, Vol 1 Ray Long and Chris Macivor The Anatomy Coloring Book Wynn Kapit and Lawrence Elsonwatch Anatomy for Yoga with Paul Grilley DV Dvisit getbodysmart. com
- --
5. 10 © Yoga Flow YOGA Joints Joints are locations on the body where two ormore bones make contact. Joints are constructed to allow movement and provide support. They are designed to be innately frictionless, absorb and control impact. Healthy joints house frictionless movement and mitigate external impact. In yoga, we focus on three types of joints: Hinge AThese function to allow mobility in forward andbackward movements or flexion and extension and to limit other mobility. ex. elbow, knee Ball and Socket BThe have the greatest mobility, allowing formovement in all 3 planes. Functional movementis for changing direction when walking, running or reaching. ex. hip, shoulder Intervertebral or Compressive Joint Located between the vertebrae of the spine, these allow limited mobility but provide great stability to protect the spinal cord. MOBILITY VS. STABILITY Being mindful about joint structure will support you in choosing and teaching yoga posesappropriately with the best intentions for yourstudents. The shoulder joint is commonly injured due to its great range of motion and lack ofstability. Proper alignment in shoulder activating yoga poses will greatly reduce the risk of injury. Inherent joint stability depends on the shape of the adjacent bones, density of connective tissue surrounding the joint capsule and strength ofmuscles that cross the joint. Joints with increased mobility due to adjacent bones tend to provideless innate structural stability. These joints require additional support from soft tissue structures(muscles, tendons, ligaments). Structuralimbalance or weakness of the supporting tissuessurrounding mobile joints introduces increased riskof injury (subluxation, impingement or dislocation). Conversely, joints with more innate structural stability due to adjacent bones tend towarddecreased mobility. Because of the enhanced stability, these joints do not rely on additional support from soft tissue structures. Example of Increased Mobility: Shoulder Joint Because of the shallow, cup-like shape of the outward-facing portion of the scapula (glenoidfossa) which does not completely house the head of the humerus (upper arm). The range of motionavailable is flexion, extension, abduction, horizontal ab/adduction, internal and external rotation, circumduction. In yoga, Eagle arms. Example of Increased Stability: Hip Joint Because of the shape and surface-to-surface contact area of the joint itself, created by theconnection between spherical head of the femurbone (the ball) within the acetabulum of the pelvis (the socket), and the vertical orientation of thejoint during weight bearing (standing), the hip joint is innately stable. While the structure of hip jointclassifies it similar to the shoulder joint as a “ball and socket” joint, the depth and orientation (down and out) of the acetabulum (socket) of the pelvis, as compared to the glenoid fossa (socket) of the scapula is what increases the stability of the hip joint versus that of the shoulder joint. Similar tothe shoulder joint, motions available at the hip joint are: flexion-extension, ab/adduction, and internal and external rotation, as well as circumduction. In yoga, supine figure-four.
A
- --

# 5.11
5. 11
B
