---
title: 'Breflection'
slug: 'breflection'
group: 'Training'
order: 104
summary: 'Cultural Appreciation and ContextDEFINING CULTURE AIn order to discuss the impact of cultural appreciation, we need a working definition of the word “Culture.” Culture can defined '
tags: []
---

Cultural Appreciation and ContextDEFINING CULTURE AIn order to discuss the impact of cultural appreciation, we need a working definition of the word “Culture.” Culture can defined as a commonality based on different factors, like those pictured here. This is important as culture goes beyond what we may think on the surface. We may have several different cultures we navigate: a family culture, work culture, and a number of many other socially constructed cultures. Photos by Unknown Author is licensed under CC BY-NC-ND
LODEN and ROSENER’S DIVERSITY WHEEL BMarilyn Loden and Dr. Judy Rosenercreated a framework for understanding characteristics that we use to create our cultural and social identity. The wheel pictured here is not a comprehensive list but is a place to start. What do you notice about the characteristics in the middle of the circle versus the outer? Defining CultureWhat does “culture” mean to you? What other cultures do you know about other than your own? From whose lens is that knowledge derived?
What symbols/examples of culture have you seen in media? How accurate are these representations?
ImpactWhat are some of the images/thoughts that come to mind when you think about: -Immigrant vs. Citizen-Criminal vs. Law Abiding-High school educated vs. Higher education-Low Income vs. Middle Class -Unhealthy Person vs. Healthy/Fit Person
What are the consequences of generalizing people based on their culture?
Who should determine the level of harm someone might experience when cultural appropriation occurs?A
Breflection

---

# Page 304

Impact of Social HierarchyCultural and social hierarchy can lead to inequity between:marginalized groups (minority groups with less/without power) and privileged groups (dominant group with power)CULTURAL APPROPRIATIONCultural appropriation takes place when members of a majority group adopt cultural elements of a minority group in an exploitative, disrespectful, or stereotypical way. To fully understand its consequences, though, we need to make sure we have a working definition ofcultureitself…But there’s a difference betweenappreciatinga culture, which might include enjoying food from another country or learning a new language, andappropriatingit, which involves taking something “without authority or right,”*What is its harm?-The majority group benefits financially from the minority group’s culture it is appropriating-Simplifying and flattening the culture of the minority group and perpetuating stereotypes or caricature-Taking imagery or elements from the culture of a minority group without its original cultural purpose, and misusing or misrepresenting the cultureMOVING TOWARDS CULTURAL APPRECIATIONCultural appreciation, cultural competence and “cultural humility”* refers to the important work of being competent in the culture(s) that we are interacting with.Towards-Self –reflection: understanding your own experiences, family, ancestry, community and raise awareness-Listen to/read about/connect with those whose culture you are seeking to learn about-Honor and respect the culture that you are interacting withAway-Shame and judgment of self or others-Sports mascots using aspects of Native American culture-Continuing racial stereotypes-Lack of desire to reflect and seek educationpath forwardReflect and journal on the below to create a path towards cultural competency. What is something that you know now is an example of cultural appropriation and how can you shift this behavior/content towards cultural appreciation?
What is an example of cultural appropriation in yoga spaces? How can this shift into cultural appreciation and cultural competence?
When you witness an example of cultural appropriation, how would your respond/act if it happened to you? Or if you overheard about it?
What can you commit to learning while in teacher training? How can you expand your knowledge?
*“What is Cultural Appropriation?” Brittanica https://www.britannica.com/story/what-is-cultural-appropriation*Greene-Moton. Cultural Competence or Cultural Humility. Nov, 2019. https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1524839919884912©Yoga FlowYOGA 7.13

---

# Page 305

Implicit Bias”Our preferences -what and whom we favor or reject…can take different forms…psychologists routinely speak about two systems that characterize the mind: reflective and automatic.” (Banaji and Mahzarin, 2016, p 53*)“Everyday automatic preferences steer us towards less conscious decisions…our rationality is often no match for our automatic preference” (Banaji and Mahzarin, 2016, p 54*)AUTOMATIC PROGRAMMING Our preferences can stem from the mind being reflective -reflecting on our our values, such as life, education, religious beliefs, experience, and automatic, or implicit, non-conscious decision making. The automatic, part of our mind also informs our thoughts and feelings and actions, but in a way that we might not be able to explain or notice as clearly. The danger arises when the implicit or automatic part of our mind has a bigger, and potentially negative, impact. EXPLICIT BIASExplicit bias is the traditional conceptualization of bias. With explicit bias, individuals are aware of their prejudices and attitudes toward certain groups. Positive or negative preferences for a particular group are conscious. Overt racism and racist comments are examples of explicit biases.*IMPLICIT OR UNCONSCIOUS BIASImplicit bias involves all ofthe subconscious feelings, perceptions, attitudes, and stereotypes that have developed as a result ofprior influences and imprints. It is an automatic positive or negative preference for a group, based on one’s subconscious thoughts. However, implicit bias does not require animus; it only requires knowledge of a stereotype to produce discriminatory actions. Implicit bias can be just as problematic as explicit bias, because both may produce discriminatory behavior. With implicit bias, the individual may be unaware that biases, rather than the facts of a situation, are driving their decision-making.*Affinity Bias –tendency to warm up and give preference with people who we believe are like usConfirmation Bias –tendency to seek information that confirm our pre-existing beliefs and values304reflectionWhat is an experience (in your life or as a yoga student) you’ve had where you were felt seen, valued, safe? Conversely, what does it feel like when we are not seen, valued, safe?
How may this experience inspire the kind of space you want to create for your yoga students? And what qualities does a yoga teacher need to develop to provide that space?
What can be gained from a more inclusive yoga community?
Optional further learning:Watch the Danger of a Single Story on TED Talk by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. In what ways can our Implicit Bias be harmful?*Reference: Banaji, Mahzarin R., and Anthony G. Greenwald.Blindspot: Hidden Biases of Good People. Bantam Books, 2016.*Definitions from the Department of Justice justice.gov©Yoga FlowYOGA 7.14

---

# Page 306

Inclusive CommunicationInclusive Communication begins with our ability to listen with empathy.EMPATHY Showing an ability to understand and share the feelings of another.SYMPATHY The fact or power of sharing the feelings of another, especially in sorrow and trouble.Empathy + Sympathy= CompassionALIGNING INTENT and IMPACTCommunication is often a delicate balance between intent and Impact.IntentThe words and actions youchoose have a specific and intended message. You may not see how your words or actions could be interpreted in a different way.Impact The message could beinterpreted in a different way by different people. The person may have been unintentionally offended or may have “taken it the wrong way”.ImpasseOption 1: Take responsibility for theimpact of your words (if you caused the harm), ask questions (if you were on the receiving end), work through it together, heal a possible division, and honor our collective humanity.Option 2: Say nothing, and lose respect for the person, and create a disconnection.ListeningTalking1. Ignore (teenager)1. Ignore/Yelling (parent)2. Pretend to listen (glazed over)2. Dismiss/Interrupt (ego)3. Selective listening- Intent to Respond (lawyer)- Intent to Understand (doctor)3. Speak Untruth- Intent to Harm(take someone down)- Intent to Help(save from heartbreak)4. Attentive listening (from your perspective)4. Speak truth without Empathy5. Empathetic listening (from their perspective)5. Speak truth with empathy –Is it true? Is it kind? Is it necessary?INTENTIMPASSEIMPACT

---
